1
Select2Col: Leveraging Spatial-Temporal
Importance of Semantic Information for Efficient
Collaborative Perception
Yuntao Liu, Qian Huang, Rongpeng Li, Xianfu Chen, Zhifeng Zhao, Shuyuan Zhao, Yongdong Zhu and
Honggang Zhang
Abstract—Collaborative perception by leveraging the shared
semantic information plays a crucial role in overcoming the
individual limitations of isolated agents. However, existing col-
laborative perception methods tend to focus solely on the spatial
features of semantic information, while neglecting the impor-
tance of the temporal dimension. Consequently, the potential
benefits of collaboration remain underutilized. In this article,
we propose Select2Col, a novel collaborative perception frame-
work that takes into account the s patial-temporal importance
of semantic information. Within the Select2Col, we develop a
collaborator selection method that utilizes a lightweight graph
neural network (GNN) to estimate the importance of semantic
information (IoSI) of each collaborator in enhancing percep-
tion performance, thereby identifying contributive collaborators
while excluding those that potentially bring negative impact.
Moreover, we present a semantic information fusion algorithm
called HPHA (historical prior hybrid attention), which inte-
grates multi-scale attention and short-term attention modules
to capture the IoSI in feature representation from the spatial
and temporal dimensions respectively, and assigns IoSI-consistent
weights for efficient fusion of information from selected collab-
orators. Extensive experiments on three open datasets demon-
strate that our proposed Select2Col significantly improves the
perception performance compared to state-of-the-art approaches.
The code associated with this research is publicly available at
https://github.com/huangqzj/Select2Col/.
Index Terms—Collaborative Perception, Importance of Seman-
tic Information, Spatial-Temporal Dimensions, Semantic Infor-
mation Fusion, Hybrid Attention.
I. I NTRODUCTION
P
ERCEPTION is an essential capability for agents, espe-
cially for autonomous vehicles (A Vs). However, in real-
world scenarios involving occluded or distant objects, relying
solely on single-agent individual perception capabilities often
encounters significant challenges [1], and possibly leads to
catastrophic outcomes, as depicted in Fig. 1. Fortunately,
Y . Liu is with the College of Information Science and Electronic Engineer-
ing, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310027, China as well as with Zhejiang
Lab, Hangzhou 311121, China (e-mail: liuyuntao@zju.edu.cn).
Q. Huang, S. Zhao and Y . Zhu are with Zhejiang Lab, Hangzhou 311121,
China (e-mail: {huangq, zhaosy, zhuyd }@zhejianglab.com).
R. Li is with the College of Information Science and Electronic En-
gineering, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310027, China (e-mail: lirong-
peng@zju.edu.cn).
X. Chen is with the VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland, Oulu,
90570, Finland (e-mail: xianfu.chen@vtt.fi).
Z. Zhao and H. Zhang are with Zhejiang Lab, Hangzhou 311121, China (e-
mail: {zhaozf, honggangzhang}@zhejianglab.com) as well as with the College
of Information Science and Electronic Engineering, Zhejiang University,
Hangzhou 310027, China.
VehicleA
VehicleA
Agent 
(Road infra)
Agent 
(Road infra)
Potential collision
Agent 
Agent 
Agent i (ego)
Semantic 
Information
Semantic 
Information
Semantic 
Information
Semantic 
Information
A
A
Collaborator 
(Road infra)
Collaborator 
(Road infra)
Potential collision
Ego
Semantic 
information
Semantic 
information
Semantic 
information
Semantic 
information
Collaborator
Collaborator
B
B
Fig. 1. The limitation of single-agent perception. From the perspective of the
ego vehicle, Vehicle A is occluded, causing a dangerous collision risk when
both vehicles accelerate. Such collisions occur frequently.
the emergence of the Internet of Vehicles (IoV) allows A Vs
to communicate with other agents, thereby acquiring addi-
tional perception information [2]. Consequently, collaborative
perception, wherein participating agents (e.g., vehicles and
road infrastructures) exchange their perception information
to obtain an enhanced understanding of surroundings beyond
their individual capabilities, has become a promising solution
to avoid perception difficulties encountered by isolated agents
[3]. In an illustrative scenario in Fig. 1, the ego vehicle
becomes capable of detecting the occluded Vehicle A by lever-
aging perception information provided by other agents (i.e.,
its collaborators). Hence, it not only enhances the perception
performance of the ego vehicle but also improves its ability to
respond to abnormal situations, thus mitigating potential traffic
conflicts.
In terms of the embedded characteristics of shared infor-
mation, collaborative perception can be classified as early
fusion [4], late fusion [5], [6], and intermediate fusion [7]–
[18]. Specifically, the former two categories, which share the
raw data directly or perception results (e.g., object classifi-
cation and regression results), could either inflict significant
communication cost or yield limited performance due to
the inadequately shared scene context. Instead, intermediate
fusion, which involves to share extracted feature information
(i.e., semantic information) from raw perception data, has
arXiv:2307.16517v3  [cs.CV]  7 Feb 2024
2
been consistently demonstrated as a promising strategy to ef-
fectively balance perception performance and communication
overhead [9]–[11].
However, as semantic information suffers from multi-level
heterogeneity (e.g., diverse transmission latency, different sen-
sor configurations, and distinct views of agents), the shared
semantic information could be rather asynchronous and mis-
aligned in both temporal and spatial dimensions. For instance,
the semantic information of different agents may offer in-
consistent sizes and locations for the same object. Therefore,
the direct fusion of semantic information could be trouble-
some. Moreover, the selection of appropriate collaborators
becomes crucial, as unsuitable candidates have the potential
to introduce disruptive noise interference, which ultimately
results in a deterioration of the overall perception performance
[12]. Nonetheless, identifying beneficial collaborators that can
enhance perception performance is not straightforward, due to
their diverse spatial-temporal perspectives.
In order to realize efficient collaborative perception, sev-
eral recent studies have been proposed [8]–[18], and promi-
nent works include CoFF [8], V2VNet [9], V2X-Vit [10],
Where2comm [11], Who2com [12] and When2com [13].
However, these studies solely focus on the spatial aspect
of semantic information, disregarding the importance of the
temporal dimension. Given the heterogeneous nature of inter-
agent sensors and the time required for information trans-
mission, shared semantic information inherently encounters
latency in real-world scenarios [10]. Disregarding the temporal
dimension of semantic information in collaborative perception
results in limited or even degraded performance enhancement.
For instance, relying on outdated shared semantic information,
such as depicting objects that are no longer present in the
focus region, has the potential to confuse the ego and lead
to misleading perception outcomes. Therefore, comprehensive
consideration of both the spatial and temporal dimensions of
semantic information becomes indispensable for successful
collaborative perception. Furthermore, considering the diverse
temporal and spatial characteristics of semantic information
from various collaborators, the importance of semantic in-
formation in enhancing perception performance also varies.
Therefore, integrating the importance of semantic informa-
tion (IoSI) into collaborative perception is highly attractive.
This can be achieved by assigning distinctive spatial-temporal
importance weights to different semantic information and
utilizing these weights to guide both collaborator selection and
semantic information fusion.
In this article, motivated by the aforementioned discussions
and the significant contributions of artificial intelligence stud-
ies [19]–[21], we propose an IoSI-based collaborative percep-
tion framework called Select2Col to more comprehensively
take account of the s patial-temporal importance of semantic
information. Within the Select2Col framework, we develop
an IoSI-based method for collaborator selection, which en-
ables efficient selection of contributive collaborators from
both temporal and spatial dimensions. Moreover, we design
a historical prior hybrid attention (HPHA) fusion algorithm
to achieve more effective information fusion by assigning
IoSI-consistent weights. Compared to existing works [8]–[17],
the main contributions of this article can be summarized as
follows.
1) We propose the Select2Col 1 framework for collaborative
perception, which allows to capture the IoSI from spatial
and temporal dimensions for both effective collaborator
selection and meaningful information fusion.
2) We design a semantic information fusion algorithm
HPHA, which employs a multi-scale attention module
and a short-term attention module to efficiently aggre-
gate semantic information from the spatial and temporal
dimensions of IoSI. Moreover, we present a collabora-
tor selection method based on IoSI, ensuring that only
semantic information from contributive collaborators is
leveraged.
3) We carry out a comprehensive evaluation of our proposed
Select2Col on three open datasets OPV2V [14], V2XSet
[10], and V2V4Real [22]. The experimental results show
that Select2Col is more effective in improving perception
performance than state-of-the-art (SOTA) works, such as
V2VNet [9], V2X-Vit [10], and Where2comm [11].
The remainder of this article is organized as follows. Section
II reviews the related works on collaborative perception. Sec-
tion III presents the system model and formulates the problem.
Section IV elaborates on our proposed Select2Col framework.
Sections V and VI introduce our innovative collaborator
selection method and semantic information fusion algorithm
HPHA, respectively. We conduct experiments to verify our
proposed Select2Col in Section VII. Finally, we conclude this
article with a summary in Section VIII.
II. R ELATED WORKS
A. Perception Means in IoV
Perception plays a crucial role in various tasks of IoV
(especially A Vs), such as 3D object detection [23], multiple
object tracking [24], semantic segmentation [25], and depth
estimation [26]. In particular, 3D object detection, which aims
to accurately identify predefined object categories by providing
classification and regression information [27], is considered as
one of the fundamental perception tasks within the field of
computer vision.
Given commonly utilized perception sensors in autonomous
vehicles, methods for 3D target detection can be categorized
into camera-based and LiDAR-based methods [28]. Mean-
while, LiDAR-based detection methods are particularly fa-
vored due to the inherent 3D information of LiDAR point
clouds, which maintain excellent performance even under chal-
lenging weather and lighting conditions [27]. However, LiDAR
point clouds often suffer from sparsity and disorderliness,
which pose challenges for the direct processing of individual
points [29]. To address this limitation, it commonly turns
point clouds into alternative structures, such as voxel [30]
or pillar [31], to improve the processing efficiency. Notably,
compared to voxels, pillar structures offer advantages in terms
of reduced computational and memory resources [32]. For
1The codes for our proposed Select2Col are available at
https://github.com/huangqzj/Select2Col/.
3
TABLE I
A COMPARISON BETWEEN SELECT 2COL AND HIGHLY RELATED WORKS .
Works Collaborator
selection strategy
Information
fusion strategy
[8]–[10] All agents Spatial fusion
[15]–[18] All agents Spatial fusion
[11]–[13] Spatial selection Spatial fusion
Select2Col (Ours) Spatial-temporal
selection
Spatial-temporal
fusion
example, PointPillars [33], a widely adopted technique for
object detection in point clouds, organizes point clouds into
vertical columns and operates on pillars instead of voxels.
Consequently, all critical operations can be performed ef-
ficiently using 2D convolutions, thus eliminating the need
for manual tuning of vertical direction binning. Given the
requirement for real-time inference in detection models for
autonomous vehicles, many state-of-the-art collaborative per-
ception methods, such as V2VNet [9], V2X-Vit [10], and
Where2comm [11], integrate the backbone of PointPillars in
their respective models.
Consistent with these works, we primarily consider LiDAR-
based 3D object detection as our perception task and focus on
how to enhance the performance of collaborative perception,
given the inherent limitations of single-agent perception [32].
B. Related Studies in Collaborative Perception
Collaborative perception allows agents to share the percep-
tion information through the IoV , overcoming the inherent
limitations of single-agent perception. Early research primarily
focuses on effectively fusing feature information from col-
laborators, with the pioneering V2VNet [9] being one such
example. Specifically, V2VNet employs a space-aware graph
neural network (GNN) to aggregate information from neigh-
boring agents. Similarly, in [15], a collaborative perception
solution is proposed by using a graph attention network-based
aggregation strategy to fuse intermediate representations. In
addition, V2X-ViT [10] introduces a unified vision transformer
architecture with heterogeneous multi-agent self-attention to
effectively capture the spatial relationship between agents,
leading to efficient feature fusion. Another related work [16]
designs adaptive feature fusion models using trainable neural
networks in the spatial dimension. Meanwhile, the CoFF
approach [8] fuses feature information by enhancing the spatial
feature information of the original perception data. In another
related study [17], a feature fusion method that leverages a
repair network module and a specially designed V2V attention
module is proposed to mitigate the influence of shared feature
loss during transmission. Furthermore, CoAlign [18] intro-
duces a collaborative perception framework that effectively
handles unknown pose errors by utilizing a novel agent-object
pose graph model.
Although the incorporation of multiple agents in collabo-
rative perception yields performance improvement, studies of
Who2com [12] and literature [34] demonstrate that bluntly
adding more collaborators does not always guarantee perfor-
mance benefits and can even result in counter-intuition nega-
tive effects. Therefore, the selection of effective collaborators
and the fusion of meaningful information becomes crucial
for collaborative perception. For example, When2com [13]
proposes to forge several communication groups from neigh-
boring agents in terms of the spatial feature similarity of the
shared information and determines when to collaborate within
these groups. On the other hand, Where2comm [11] employs
a spatial confidence map to select collaborators and utilizes
multi-head attention to fuse the shared semantic information.
Despite the remarkable progress, the lack of exploring
the temporal dimension of semantic information makes these
works far from optimality. To address this performance gap,
our proposed Select2Col highlights the importance of both
spatial and temporal dimensions of IoSI for collaborator
selection and semantic information fusion, thereby achieving
further improvements in perception performance. As outlined
in TABLE I, Select2Col exhibits notable distinctions from
existing works.
III. S YSTEM MODEL AND PROBLEM FORMULATION
A. System Model
Beforehand, Table II presents a list of notations used in this
manuscript.
Consistent with SOTA methods, such as [9]–[11], we adopt
a collaborative perception scenario wherein at a given time-
slot t, there exists an ego agent i performing collaborative
perception with a set of neighboring agents N t
i (e.g., vehicles
and/or road infrastructures with perception and communication
functionalities), as depicted in Fig. 1. From the ego’s perspec-
tive, the objective of collaborative perception is to effectively
leverage the received semantic information to maximize its
perception performance.
Mathematically, we denote that at the very beginning of t,
agent i obtains its raw perception data Xi from its sensors and
receives semantic information transmitted by its neighboring
agents. From that time, the collaborative perception undergoes
the following procedures.
1) Semantic information extraction: We adopt the interme-
diate feature fusion strategy [9]. In other words, et each time-
slot t, agent i employs an encoder fenc to extract semantic
information from its raw perception data Xi, such as LiDAR
point cloud data [11]. For any agent i, the corresponding
semantic information F t
i is extracted at time-slot t as follows
F t
i = fenc (Xi) . (1)
In addition, for a simpler and more consistent representation
of semantic information, we employ the notation F t−τji
j to
denote the semantic information of agent j ∈ Nt
i ∪ {i}, where
τji represents the information latency between the source agent
j and the target agent i. Specifically, when j equals i, τji is
set to 0 as there is no latency between agent i and itself.
Otherwise, τji can be defined as the sum of inter-agent asyn-
chronous overhead tasyn
ji , the semantic information extraction
latency text
ji , the semantic information transmission latency ttx
ji ,
and the idle time tidle
ji caused by the lack of synchronization
4
TABLE II
NOTATIONS AND EXPLANATION
Notation Explanation
Xi Raw perception data of agent i
N t
i Set of neighbor agents for agent i at time-slot t
Ct
i Set of selected collaborators for agent i at time-slot t
S Set of scales for mult-scale attention operation
F t
i Semantic information of agent i at time-slot t
F
t−τji
j
Semantic information of agent j shared to agent i
at time-slot t
Hs
Aggregated feature semantic information after
spatial attention operation at a specific scale s
Hms
Aggregated feature semantic information after
multi-scale attention operation
Hi Fused semantic information of agent i
Mj Sparse map of agent j
W sa
s,ji
Spatial-attention weight of agent j to agent i at
scale s
W ta Temporal-attention weight
wen
ji Enhanced weight of agent j to agent i
bYi Perception results of agent i
Yi Ground truth of the perception results of agent i
fenc
Encoder that extracts semantic information from raw
perception data
fselect Selector that outputs the selected collaborators
ffuse Fuser that outputs the fused semantic information
fdec Decoder that outputs perception results
feva Standard perception performance evaluation function
conv (·) Convolution block operation
deconv (·) Deconvolution block operation
sa (·) Spatial attention operation
ta (·) Temporal attention operation
τji Information availability latency of agent j to agent i
tasyn
ji
Asynchronous overhead between the sensors of
agent j and agent i
text
ji Semantic information extraction latency of agent j
ttx
ji
Transmission latency of shared semantic information
from agent j to agent i
tidle
ji
Idle time between the perception system and
communication system
bji Bandwidth of agent j to agent i
ptx
ji Transmission power of agent j to agent i
ploss
ji Path loss between agent j and agent i
pnoise
ji Noise power between agent j and agent i
dji Distance between agent j and i
fc Center frequency in GHz
sms Multi-scale attention output scale
T Sensor sampling interval
K Number of historical prior frames
between the perception system and communication system
[10]. In other words,
τji = tasyn
ji + text
ji + ttx
ji + tidle
ji . (2)
According to the specification 3GPP TR 38.901 [35], network
transmission latency ttx
ji can be approximately derived from a
path-loss driven channel as
ttx
ji =
size

F t−τji
j

bji log2 (1 + 100.1(ptx
ji −ploss
ji −pnoise
ji ) )
, (3)
where size (·) denotes a function that calculates the size of the
transmitted semantic information. Besides, bji, ptx
ji , pnoise
ji and
ploss
ji = 28.0 + 22 log10 (dji) + 20 log10 (fc) represent agent
j’s transmission bandwidth, transmission power, transmission
noise power, and transmission path loss to agenti, respectively.
Furthermore, dji denotes the distance between agent j and i
in meters, and fc represents the center frequency in GHz.
2) Contributive collaborator selection: The semantic infor-
mation of neighboring agents is derived from a variety of raw
perception data with various spatial and temporal dimensions.
It is important to note that not all semantic information is
beneficial. In certain cases, the semantic information provided
by specific agents may degrade perception performance due
to excessive delay or unreasonable spatial viewpoint [12].
Therefore, agent i employs a selector fselect to determine a
contributive collaborator set Ct
i from N t
i , namely,
Ct
i = fselect

F t−τji
j
	
j∈N t
i ∪{i}

. (4)
3) Semantic information fusion: After selecting contribu-
tive collaborators, agent i utilizes a fuser ffuse to aggregate its
semantic information F t
i with selected collaborators’ semantic
information {F t−τji
j }j∈Ct
i
and correspondingly obtain the
fused semantic information Hi with a more comprehensive
representation of features. The semantic information fusion
expression can be written as
Hi = ffuse

F t−τji
j
	
j∈Ct
i ∪{i}

. (5)
4) Semantic information decoding: Finally, for each agent
i, the fused semantic information Hi needs to be converted
into appropriate perception results bYi by a decoder fdec.
Mathematically, the expression for this process is as
bYi = fdec(Hi). (6)
B. Problem Formulation
Consistent with all collaborative perception works, we use
the average precision (AP) metric to evaluate the perception
performance, that is
AP = feva( bYi, Yi), (7)
where Yi represents the ground truth of agent i’s perception
results, and feva (·) is a standard perception performance
evaluation function [36] that measures the accuracy of the
perception results relative to the ground truth.
Thus, in order to maximize the perception performance (i.e.,
maximize the AP), together with (4) to (7), the collaborative
perception problem can be formulated as
max AP =feva
 
fdec

ffuse
 
F t−τji
j
	
j∈Ct
i ∪{i}

, Yi
!
s.t. Ct
i = fselect

F t−τji
j
	
j∈N t
i ∪{i}

.
(8)
As implied in (8), it turns to optimize the design of the selec-
tor fselect (·) and fuser ffuse (·), since the fenc (·), fdec (·), and
feva (·) are typically common and well-established elements
5
Ego
Encoder
Fuser
HPHA
Decoder
Classif
y
 
 
Regress
 
 
Selector
 
 
 
 
...
Agent 1
Inputs
Outputs
Agent j
Historical
Feature
Spatial aggregate
Temporal refine
...
...
 
 
...
...
Pointpillars
backbone
Raw point 
clouds
j
j
GNN 
layers
GNN 
layers
j
GNN 
layers
Selected 
collaborators
Fused 
information
 
Aggregated 
information
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2. The overview of our proposed Select2Col framework.
[9]–[11]. Furthermore, the former fselect (·) involves iden-
tifying effective collaborators that can provide high-quality
perception semantic information, while the latter considers
the correlation of semantic information to improve the feature
representations. Nevertheless, it is non-trivial to describe these
two functions in compact, mathematical formulations. Hence,
vanilla approaches [9]–[14] approximate these functions with
the guidance of intuitive observations. For example, collab-
orators with larger ego interest regions promise to be more
contributive in improving the perception performance of ego.
Furthermore, assigning higher weights to more important
semantic information for fusion can contribute to yielding an
enhanced feature representation. However, these approaches
ignore the importance of semantic information from the tem-
poral dimension, resulting in limitations in accurately fitting
these functions.
Therefore, to address these challenges, we leverage
lightweight GNN and hybrid attention modules to calibrate
the selector fselect (·) and fuser ffuse (·) based on the IoSI
from spatial-temporal dimensions. The details shall be given
in Section V and Section VI.
IV. S ELECT 2C OL: AN IOSI- BASED COLLABORATIVE
PERCEPTION FRAMEWORK
Based on the previous analysis, we propose Select2Col, an
IoSI-based collaborative perception framework. As depicted
in Fig. 2, Select2Col comprises four components (i.e., en-
coder fenc, selector fselect, fuser ffuse, and decoder fdec)
to implement the entire process of collaborative perception.
We briefly introduce these components of Select2Col in this
section, while leaving the innovative design of collaborator
selection and information fusion in Section V and Section VI,
respectively.
A. Overview of Select2Col
Typically, the Select2Col framework encompasses the fol-
lowing components.
1) Encoder: The encoder extracts semantic information
from raw perception data. In this article, we focus on LiDAR-
based 3D object detection as the perception task. Correspond-
ingly, we adopt the backbone of Pointpillars [33] as our
encoder because of its low inference latency and optimized
memory usage, consistent with the literature [9]–[11].
2) Selector: This selector is invoked to determine con-
tributive collaborators Ct
i using the semantic information
{F t−τji
j }j∈N t
i ∪{i} obtained from the outputs of the encoder.
As mentioned earlier, we design an IoSI-based collaborator
selection method, the details of which are given in Section V .
3) Fuser: This fuser is responsible for obtaining the fused
semantic information Hi using {F t−τji
j }j∈Ct
i ∪{i}. In par-
ticular, we propose a semantic information fusion algorithm
named HPHA to enhance the fusion feature representation as
further discussed in Section VI.
4) Decoder: This decoder outputs the perception results
bYi based on the fused semantic information Hi. Consistent
with [11], we utilize a two-layer convolution block to down-
sample the fused semantic information and then employ a
single-layer convolutional classification head and a single-
layer convolutional regression head to obtain the classification
and regression information of objects, respectively.
B. End-to-End Network Model
We employ an end-to-end neural network model to effec-
tively integrate the components above, given that the output
of each component serves as the input for the next one.
This network model takes the raw perception data of the
ego agent and its neighboring agents as input. It produces
collaborative perception results (i.e., the results of 3D object
detection, including the classification and regression informa-
tion) for the ego agent. Therefore, the loss function of the
model consists of a classification loss and a regression loss.
In line with PointPillars [33], we utilize focal loss [37] for the
classification loss and smooth L1 loss [38] for the regression
loss.
6
Conv map
Conv map
...
...
Collaborator Selection
...
...
sparse map
，
GNN layers
Fig. 3. Diagram of our collaborator selection method.
Furthermore, the network model is trained in an end-to-
end manner under the supervision LiDAR-based 3D object
detection task. During training, a random agent is selected as
the ego from the training subset of the open datasets, such as
OPV2V [14], V2XSet [10], and V2V4Real [22]. The training
method and parameters are consistent with the SOTA works
[9]–[11], and more details can be found in our open-source
code.
V. C OLLABORATOR SELECTION BASED ON IOSI
Given the spatial-temporal variability of agents, this sec-
tion introduces our proposed IoSI-based collaborator selection
method, that is the fuser ffuse (·), to address the challenges of
identifying contributive collaborators.
Specifically, the collaborator selection method, as illustrated
in Fig. 3, consists of two steps. In the first step, we employ
a lightweight GNN module to estimate the enhanced weight
of each agent from spatial-temporal dimensions. These en-
hanced weights indicate the individual IoSI in enhancing the
perception performance of the ego. In the subsequent step,
contributive collaborators are selected based on the acquired
enhanced weights, and the feature information of the chosen
collaborators is enhanced accordingly. Different from solely
relying on spatial relationships to determine contributive col-
laborators, our method takes into account both spatial and
temporal dimensions, resulting in a more precise selection
of contributors and more effective utilization of their feature
information.
A. Enhanced Weight Estimation
For each agent j in N t
i ∪ {i}, we first utilize a convolution
module convmap [11] to extract its sparse map Mj from its
semantic information F t−τji
j . Mathematically, the expression
for this process is as
Mj = convmap
 
F t−τji
j

. (9)
In addition, given that the sparse map contains the spatial
location information of potential objects, the element in the
sparse map takes either 0 or 1 depending on the existence of
Algorithm 1 Collaborator Selection Method
1: Input: semantic information of ego and its neighboring
agents {F t−τji
j }j∈N t
i ∪{i}.
2: Output: selected collaborator set Ct
i , and corresponding
enhanced semantic information {F t−τji
j }j∈Ct
i ∪{i}.
3: initialize Ct
i as neighboring agent set N t
i .
4: for each agent j ∈ Nt
i ∪ {i} do
5: get the corresponding sparse map Mj using (9);
6: if (j = i) then
7: the latency between ego and itself is 0, i.e., τji = 0;
8: endif
9: using (Mj, τji) as agent’s spatial-temporal informa-
tion;
10: endfor
11: agents in N t
i ∪ {i} as nodes to build the GNN network;
12: GNN outputs each agent’s enhanced weight

wen
ji
	
j∈N t
i
;
13: for each agent j ∈ Nt
i do
14: if
 
wen
ji ⩽ wthreshold

then
15: delete invalid agent j from Ct
i ;
16: else then
17: enhanced semantic information of selected collab-
orator using (10);
18: endif
19: endfor
20: Return Ct
i , {F t−τji
j }j∈Ct
i ∪{i}.
potential objects (i.e., 1 indicates the existence, while 0 implies
only the existence of the background).
Subsequently, we employ a lightweight GNN [19] as the
backbone to estimate the importance of each agent in en-
hancing ego i’s perception performance from spatial-temporal
dimensions. Within this GNN module, each node corresponds
to an agent and comprises its sparse map along with the
semantic information latency, which respectively indicates
the spatial and temporal characteristics of this agent. For
each agent j in N t
i , the trained GNN generates its enhanced
weight wen
ji , reflecting the importance of this agent’s semantic
information to the ego.
B. Collaborator Selection and Enhancement
We utilize the acquired enhanced weights to determine the
contributive agents. For any agent j in N t
i , if its enhanced
weight wen
ji exceeds a pre-defined threshold, we consider it as
a contributive agent; otherwise, we classify it as an ineffective
collaborator. After eliminating all ineffective collaborators in
N t
i , we then obtain a selected collaborator set Ct
i .
It is important to note that not all selected individuals con-
tribute equally to the improvement of perception performance.
Inspired by the idea in [8], we employ the acquired enhanced
weights to appropriately enhance the features of the selected
collaborators. Specifically, for each selected collaborator, such
as agent j, we perform multiplication between its original fea-
ture information F t−τji
j and the respective enhanced weights
wen
ji . Then, we proceed to conduct elementwise multiplication
of the enhanced feature information with its sparse graph Mj.
7
maxpool
maxpool
avgpool
avgpool
Historical 
Feature
concat
(a) Aggregated from spatial 
utilizing multi
-
scale attention
spatial
-
attention 
weight
...
sa
sa
conv
conv
ta
temporal
-
attention 
weight
Fused 
information
Input
Output
deconv
deconv
deconv
spatial
-
attention 
weight
spatial
-
attention 
weight
conv
concat
sa
(b) Refined from temporal 
utilizing short
-
term attention
Fig. 4. Diagram of our HPHA fusion algorithm.
The enhanced semantic information F t−τji
j for agent j in Ct
i
is obtained as
F t−τji
j = F t−τji
j × wen
ji ⊗ Mj, (10)
where ⊗ represents the elementwise multiplication. Recalling
the definition of sparse map Mj in (9), (10) implies the
enhanced weight wen
ji is only applied to regions with potential
objects, which can effectively improve the object features
while suppressing background noise.
In conclusion, by identifying contributive collaborators and
enhancing their semantic information based on IoSI, the
collaborator selection method provides high-quality percep-
tion information for subsequent semantic information fusion,
thereby further ensuring the effectiveness of the fused semantic
information. We summarize the details of the collaborator
selection method in Algorithm 1.
VI. HPHA: A H ISTORICAL PRIOR HYBRID ATTENTION
INFORMATION FUSION ALGORITHM
In this section, we introduce our proposed semantic infor-
mation fusion algorithm HPHA to develop the fuser ffuse (·).
As illustrated in Fig. 4, to enhance the feature presentation
of the aggregated semantic information, HPHA leverages a
multi-scale attention module and a short-term attention module
to learn the IoSI in feature presentation from spatial and
temporal dimensions respectively, and assigns IoSI-consistent
weights to different semantic information for optimal feature
fusion. Specifically, the multi-scale attention module captures
the correlation between the ego and its collaborators under var-
ious spatial resolutions, while the short-term attention module
effectively measures the temporal importance in terms of the
correlation between past and present features. Furthermore,
our proposed HPHA algorithm is outlined in Algorithm 2.
A. Semantic Information Aggregated from Spatial Dimension
To enhance the object feature representation from the spatial
dimension, we first introduce a multi-scale attention module
Algorithm 2 HPHA: Information Fusion Algorithm
1: Input: semantic information of ego and its selected col-
laborators {F t−kT
i
	
k={0,1···K }, {F t−τji
j }j∈Ct
i
.
2: Output: fused semantic information Hi.
3: for each scale s in S do
4: for each agent j ∈ C t
i ∪ {i} do
5: calculate the corresponding spatial-attention
weight W sa
s,ji using (11);
6: endfor
7: obtain aggregated information Hs with spatial-
attention weight at specific s using (12);
8: convert Hs into unified scale sms using (13);
9: endfor
10: combine all information {Hs}s∈S to produce the ultimate
aggregated semantic information Hms using (14);
11: create a temporary semantic information Hh with histor-
ical prior information {F t−kT
i
	
k={1,2···K } using (15);
12: get temporal-attention weight W ta using (16);
13: refine the final fused semantic information Hi with
temporal-attention weight W ta using (17);
14: Return Hi.
[20] to extract spatial attention weights at various spatial
resolutions and utilize the spatial-attention weight to indi-
cate the importance of a collaborator’s semantic information.
Specifically, the spatial-attention weight of agent j to agent i
at a specific spatial scale s (s ∈ S) is represented as W sa
s,ji
and can be defined as
W sa
s,ji = sa
 
conv (F t
i , s), conv (F t−τji
j , s)

, (11)
where S is the set of spatial scales, conv (F, s) denotes a
convolution block [39] that reshapes the scale of semantic
information F to s, and sa (·) represents the spatial attention
operation, referring to the dot-product attention [40]. More-
over, when j equals i, the spatial-attention weight in Eq. (11)
is reduced to the self-attention weight, resulting in a simpler
and more consistent equation.
Next, we aggregate the semantic information of selected
collaborators by assigning spatial-attention weights obtained
in Eq. (11) to generate the aggregated semantic information
Hs with a specific scale s as
Hs =
X
j∈Ct
i ∪{i}
W sa
s,ji ⊗ conv (F t−τji
j , s). (12)
Subsequently, in order to ensure the scale consistency of the
aggregated semantic information after spatial attention opera-
tion, we reshape it to a unified scale sms by a deconvolution
block [41] as
Hs = deconv (Hs, sms ), (13)
where deconv (H, s) denotes the deconvolution block that
reshapes the scale of semantic information H to s.
Finally, we combine all the information {Hs}s∈S acquired
at various attention scales to produce the ultimate aggregated
semantic information Hms, that is,
Hms = concat
 
{Hs}s∈S

. (14)
8
The multi-scale attention module effectively learns the spa-
tial correlation between the ego and its collaborators at differ-
ent spatial resolutions, which enhances the aggregated features
and presents a comprehensive representation of features.
B. Semantic Information Refined from Temporal Dimension
Furthermore, considering that the historical semantic infor-
mation of the ego contains rich object information, we design
a historical prior short-term attention module to refine the
aggregated semantic information from the temporal dimension.
First, the ego’s historical semantic information
{F t−kT
i
	
k= {1,2···K } and the last-step aggregated semantic
information Hms are concatenated to produce a new semantic
information Hh, such as
Hh = concat
 
Hms, {F t−kT
i
	
k={1,2···K }

, (15)
where T represents the sensor sampling interval, and K
represents the number of historical frames.
Next, the semantic information Hh is processed using av-
erage pooling and max pooling operations to generate average
pooling features and max pooling features, respectively. Subse-
quently, we devise a short-term attention operation to process
the two features to obtain the temporal-attention weight W ta,
that is,
W ta = ta
 
avgpool (Hh ), maxpool (Hh )

, (16)
where avgpool (·) and maxpool (·) represent the operations
of average pooling and max pooling respectively, and ta (·)
denotes a temporal attention operation, and refers to the
channel attention in [18].
Finally, the temporal-attention weight W ta is multiplied
by the semantic information Hh to produce the final fused
semantic information Hi as
Hi = W ta ⊗ Hh. (17)
By incorporating historical prior semantic information, the
short-term attention module effectively captures the temporal
correlation between past and present features. This enables it
to identify discriminating object features, thereby enhancing
the quality of object representation.
Overall, the proposed HPHA provides an enhanced and
comprehensive feature representation for the fused semantic
information Hi, derived from both spatial and temporal di-
mensions. Consequently, the decoder fdec (·) can more effi-
ciently decode the fused semantic information Hi to generate
perception results bYi, as depicted in (6).
VII. E XPERIMENTAL EVALUATION
This section provides a comprehensive performance com-
parison of the proposed Select2Col with the existing
SOTA methods, such as V2VNet [9], V2X-Vit [10], and
Where2comm [11]. Furthermore, in order to demonstrate the
superiority of Select2Col, we conduct various ablation studies
to showcase the performance improvements.
TABLE III
EXPERIMENTAL PARAMETERS
Parameter Value
Carrier frequency fc 5.9 Ghz
Total bandwidth 20 M
Transmit power ptx
ji 23 dbm
Power of noise pnoise
ji -95 dbm ∼ -110 dbm
Sensor asynchronous overhead tasyn
ji -100 ms ∼ 100 ms
Semantic extraction time text
ji 20 ms ∼ 40 ms
Multi-scale attention scale set S
[64, 96, 352]
[128, 48, 176]
[256, 24, 88]
Multi-scale attention output scale sms [128, 96, 352]
Sensor sampling interval T 100 ms
Number of historical prior frames K 2
A. Experimental Settings
Rather than evaluating on popular datasets such as KITTI
[42] and Nuscenes [43], which mainly provide single-agent
samples, all experiments in this article are conducted on open
collaborative perception datasets OPV2V [14], V2XSet [10]
and V2V4Real [22]. Specifically, OPV2V is the first large-
scale open dataset targeted at vehicle-to-vehicle collaborative
perception, generated using CARLA [44] and SUMO [45].
On the other hand, V2XSet is an open dataset that focuses
on vehicle-to-vehicle and vehicle-to-infrastructure collabora-
tive perception, generated employing CARLA and OpenCDA
[46]. Consequently, these two popular datasets are inherently
distinct. In addition, the V2V4Real dataset which comprises
collaborative perception data extracted from real-world road
scenarios spans a three-day period of driving in Columbus,
Ohio, covering a total driving area of 410 kilometers, incor-
porating 347 kilometers of highway roads and 63 kilometers
of city roads.
To comprehensively evaluate the performance of our pro-
posed Select2Col, we utilize the average accuracy (AP) at IoU
(Intersection over Union) thresholds of 0.3, 0.5, and 0.7. All
experiments are conducted on an X86 station equipped with
an Intel TM i7-11700 @2.50 GHz, 128-core CPU, 256 GB
RAM, and NVIDIA RTX3090 GPU.
As presented in TABLE III, the key parameters employed
in our study are in line with V2VNet [9], V2X-Vit [10], and
Where2comm [11]. In addition, Eq. (3) is further adopted
for a more realistic calculation of the transmission time,
where the related parameters are consistent with the literature
[47]. Notably, we allocate equal bandwidth to each individual
agent. Consequently, our setting is more precise compared to
V2X-Vit [10] and Where2comm [11], which employ a fixed
transmission rate of 27 Mbps for all agents. Furthermore, the
semantic information extraction latency text
ji is obtained based
on our computing device. More experimental parameters can
be found in our open-source code.
B. Perception Performance Comparison
In this experiment, we evaluate the overall perception per-
formance of our proposed Select2Col on a total of 664 test
data from the OPV2V dataset, 1, 466 test samples from the
9
TABLE IV
OVERALL PERCEPTION PERFORMANCE
Dataset Methods AP (%)
IoU 0.3 IoU 0.5 IoU 0.7
OPV2V
No fusion 79.81 77.70 62.12
V2X-Vit 87.09 85.89 75.56
V2VNet 82.71 80.38 52.96
Where2comm 86.71 85.20 71.35
Select2Col 89.80 88.51 77.65
V2XSet
No fusion 75.55 71.17 47.12
V2X-Vit 81.54 78.76 62.36
V2VNet 77.85 72.27 46.99
Where2comm 82.70 79.05 57.16
Select2Col 87.18 84.25 64.92
V2V4Real
No fusion 46.77 37.23 15.55
V2X-Vit 55.08 47.78 23.74
Where2comm 60.28 48.32 20.55
Select2Col 62.20 50.19 24.89
V2XSet dataset, and 1, 993 test samples from the V2V4Real
dataset. To reduce randomness, we use their average inference
results as our experimental outcomes.
As presented in TABLE IV , our proposed Select2Col out-
performs V2VNet [9], V2X-Vit [10], and Where2comm [11]
in terms of AP. For example, at an IoU threshold of 0.7,
Select2Col achieves gains of 24.69%, 2.09%, and 6.30%
in AP performance compared to V2VNet, V2X-Vit, and
Where2comm, respectively, on the OPV2V dataset. Further-
more, Select2Col proves to be highly effective and robust, even
in real-world situations obtained from V2V4Real. Notably, at
an IoU threshold of 0.3, Select2Col demonstrates a remarkable
improvement of 15.43% in AP performance compared to
single-agent perception (i.e., no fusion).
Discussions: The remarkable results achieved by Select2Col
are attributed to its introduction of innovative features. First,
selecting contributive collaborators while pruning less effective
ones can reduce noise and interference, thereby improving the
perception performance. Second, by enhancing the effective
features while suppressing noise, the effectiveness of semantic
information is boosted. Third, a multi-scale attention module
aggregates semantic information from different collaborators
with IoSI-consistent weights from the spatial dimension, which
provides a comprehensive representation of features. Finally,
a short-term attention module is applied with historical prior
semantic information, which refines the final fused semantic
information from the temporal dimension and further improves
the perception performance. Overall, unlike other works that
only focus on the spatial dimension, Select2Col comprehen-
sively considers collaborative perception from both spatial and
temporal dimensions and yields unparalleled performance.
C. Computational Efficiency Comparison
Table V and Fig. 5 present the computing efficiency of
Select2Col. Specifically, as demonstrated in TABLE V , our
Select2Col has fewer network model parameters than V2X-
Vit and V2VNet and a similar number of parameters to
Where2comm. In other words, compared to other spatial
dimension-only solutions, the incorporation of both spatial and
temporal dimensions of IoSI in selecting collaborators and
Fig. 5. The comparison of computing efficiency.
TABLE V
NUMBER OF NETWORK MODEL PARAMETERS
Works Number of
paramters (M)
V2VNet 14.6122
V2X-Vit 12.4554
Where2comm 8.0574
Select2Col 8.2875
fusing semantic information does not add any computational
complexity. Furthermore, as depicted in Fig. 5, the inference
time of our proposed Select2Col is significantly lower than
that of V2VNet and V2X-Vit, and slightly higher than that of
Where2comm due to the introduction of the lightweight GNN
and the short-term attention module; however, Select2Col out-
performs Where2comm in terms of perception performance.
The inference time of Select2Col is much less than 100 ms,
which is acceptable given the perception cycle (i.e., 10 Hz) of
the LiDAR sensor device.
Discussions: Compared to Where2comm, the newly added
lightweight GNN and short-term attention modules can en-
hance perception performance and are easily handled by main-
stream computing devices without an excessive computational
burden. Overall, Select2Col generates superior perception per-
formance with a high computational efficiency.
D. Perception Performance under Localization Noise
Notably, localization noise can be widely observed due to
the impact of spatial and temporal misalignment. To evaluate
the robustness of our proposed Select2Col, we add localization
noise to the test data, which follows a Gaussian distribution
with a standard deviation of 0.2 for both position and heading.
As presented in TABLE VI, localization noise impairs the
perception performance of all approaches, and the reduction
is more noticeable when the IoU threshold is larger (i.e.,
the detection difficulty is increased). This indicates that high-
precision detection is more vulnerable to noise. However,
compared to other methods, our proposed Select2Col shows
superior noise suppression ability. For instance, on the V2XSet
dataset, Select2Col maintains an AP of 78.74% and 58.41% at
IoU thresholds of 0.5 and 0.7, presenting an improvement of
10.20%/22.18%, 1.72%/1.51% and 3.85%/7.26% compared to
10
TABLE VI
PERCEPTION PERFORMANCE UNDER NOISE
Dataset Methods AP (%)
IoU 0.3 IoU 0.5 IoU 0.7
OPV2V
No fusion 79.81 77.70 62.12
V2X-Vit 86.76 85.41 74.51
V2VNet 82.24 78.33 44.72
Where2comm 86.47 84.30 66.52
Select2Col 89.73 88.20 74.54
V2XSet
No fusion 75.55 71.17 47.12
V2X-Vit 80.77 77.02 56.90
V2VNet 76.12 68.54 36.23
Where2comm 80.74 74.89 51.15
Select2Col 84.90 78.74 58.41
V2VNet, V2X-Vit, and Where2comm, respectively. The same
conclusion can be observed in the OPV2V dataset.
Discussions: Select2Col introduces historical prior semantic
information and utilizes a short-term attention module to learn
the correlation of semantic information from the temporal
dimension. This enables the suppression of spatial localization
noise for the current semantic information by using historical
information. As a result, the localization noise has less impact
on Select2Col.
E. Perception Performance under Distance
Collaborative perception improves the agent’s ability to
perceive objects that are located far away. Given the scarcity
of object samples beyond 120 meters in test datasets, we
solely evaluate the perception performance of objects within
120 meters to avoid the inherent randomness arising from an
inadequate number of samples. Fig. 6 to Fig. 8 illustrate the
perception performance of our proposed Select2Col and other
SOTA methods at different object distances on the OPV2V
and V2XSet datasets.
Intuitively, as the distance between the agent and the
object increases, the probability of accurately detecting the
object decreases. Consequently, the perception performance
tends to decline as the distance increases. Nonetheless, our
proposed Select2Col is still able to achieve the highest per-
ception accuracy in long-distance perception scenarios. For
instance, at an IoU threshold of 0.5 and object distance
of 60 meters, Select2Col improves the AP performance by
16.97%/9.18%/10.07% in comparison to V2VNet, V2X-Vit
and Where2comm, respectively, on the V2XSet dataset.
Discussions: The efficacy of Select2Col in perceiving dis-
tant objects lies in its ability to enhance the fused semantic
information of collaborators in both spatial and temporal
dimensions with multi-scale attention and short-term attention,
thus enhancing the capability to perceive distant objects.
F . Perception Performance under Latency
This experiment aims to evaluate the influence of informa-
tion latency on perception performance. To achieve this, we
randomly add a collaborator with a specific latency in test
samples.
Fig. 9 to Fig. 11 demonstrate the corresponding results
under different IoU thresholds. As depicted in these figures,
Fig. 6. Perception performance under distance at IoU 0.3.
Fig. 7. Perception performance under distance at IoU 0.5.
Fig. 8. Perception performance under distance at IoU 0.7.
the collaborator with a small latency has the potential to
enhance perception performance, whereas a large latency has
a negative impact. Furthermore, our proposed Select2Col ex-
hibits the best performance among all approaches and remains
performance-stable even under large latency. For instance, at
an IoU threshold of 0.3, when the latency of the collaborator
is 400 ms, Select2Col enhances the AP performance by
11.19%/7.75%/5.23% on the V2XSet dataset compared to
V2VNet, V2X-Vit, and Where2comm, respectively.
Discussions: As anticipated, the results of the experiment
support our hypothesis that the collaborator with notable
latency has a minimal or even negative impact on enhancing
11
Fig. 9. Perception performance under latency at IoU 0.3.
Fig. 10. Perception performance under latency at IoU 0.5.
Fig. 11. Perception performance under latency at IoU 0.7.
the ego’s perception performance. Furthermore, it validates the
significance of collaborator selection and strongly supports the
effectiveness of selecting collaborators from both temporal
and spatial dimensions to eliminate the negative impact. In
Select2col, we utilize a collaborator selection method that con-
siders both temporal and spatial dimensions, thus effectively
eliminating collaborators with significant latency. In contrast,
other methods either neglect collaborator selection entirely
or solely rely on spatial criteria, resulting in a decline in
perception performance as latency increases. Consequently,
Select2Col ensures stable perception performance even in
situations with notable latency and is more robust than other
TABLE VII
INNOVATIVE COMPONENT ABLATION STUDY RESULTS
Open
dataset HPHA Collaborator
selection
AP at
IoU0.3
AP at
IoU0.5
AP at
IoU0.7
OPV2V
✘ ✘ 79.81 77.70 62.12
✔ ✘ 88.11 86.13 73.91
✔ ✔ 89.80 88.51 77.65
V2XSet
✘ ✘ 75.55 71.17 47.12
✔ ✘ 85.47 81.85 61.52
✔ ✔ 87.18 84.25 64.92
methods.
G. Ablation Studies
In this subsection, we evaluate the effectiveness of the
innovations incorporated in our proposed Select2Col. As previ-
ously mentioned, Select2Col includes two novel innovations: i)
the collaborator selection method; ii) the semantic information
fusion algorithm HPHA.
TABLE VII presents the results of our ablation studies. The
outcome clearly illustrates that each innovative component
significantly contributes to the advancement of perception
performance. Specifically, the collaborator selection method
enhances the perception performance of AP by 1.71%, 2.40%,
and 3.40%, respectively, on the V2XSet dataset. Moreover,
HPHA improves the perception performance of AP by 9.92%,
10.68%, and 14.4% on the V2XSet dataset. In addition, we
conclude that the gains from the collaborator selection method
and HPHA are more pronounced when the value of the IoU
threshold is larger (i.e., the detection difficulty is increased).
This trend is in line with our previous experimental findings
and is more apparent in HPHA.
Discussions: The collaborator selection method benefits
the removal of unsuitable collaborators that cause noise,
resulting in improved perception performance. Likewise, the
gain from HPHA is obtained due to the efficient utilization
of the correlation between temporal and spatial dimensions
embedded in the semantic information for information fusion.
Thus, both techniques can effectively enhance the perception
performance.
VIII. CONCLUSION
In this article, we have proposed Select2Col, a novel
collaborative perception framework that improves perception
performance based on IoSI from both spatial and temporal
dimensions. Specifically, we have designed a collaborator
selection method that capably selects contributive collabora-
tors efficiently. To further boost the perception performance,
we have presented a semantic information fusion algorithm
named HPHA by integrating a multi-scale attention module
and a short-term attention module to capture the IoSI from
both spatial and temporal dimensions and aggregate semantic
information by assigning IoSI-consistent weights. Extensive
experimental results are conducted on three open datasets,
OPV2V , V2XSet, and V2V4Real, and demonstrate that Se-
lect2Col outperforms SOTA methods in terms of perception
performance.
12
There still exist many promising means to improve the
performance of our Select2Col framework. For instance, the
current approach for calculating enhanced weights overlooks
the IoU threshold, leading to situations where a collaborator
may be deemed effective at a low IoU threshold but fails
to enhance perception performance at higher IoU thresholds.
Thus, a more accurate enhanced weight determination method
is highly anticipated. Furthermore, the sharing of perception
information inherently carries the risk of privacy leakage.
Therefore, it is worthwhile to investigate collaborative privacy
protection techniques with malicious behavior avoidance to
enhance collaborators’ willingness to participate in sharing
information.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This work was supported in part by the National Key
Research and Development Program of China under Grant
2021YFB2900200, in part by the National Natural Science
Foundation of China under Grant 62071425, in part by the
Zhejiang Key Research and Development Plan under Grant
2022C01129, and in part by the Zhejiang Provincial Natural
Science Foundation of China under Grant LR23F010005.
REFERENCES
[1] L. Chen, Y . Li, C. Huang, B. Li, Y . Xing, D. Tian, L. Li, Z. Hu, X. Na,
Z. Li, S. Teng, C. Lv, J. Wang, D. Cao, N. Zheng, and F.-Y . Wang,
“Milestones in autonomous driving and intelligent vehicles: Survey of
surveys,” IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Vehicles , vol. 8, no. 2, pp.
1046–1056, 2023.
[2] M. Gerla, E.-K. Lee, G. Pau, and U. Lee, “Internet of vehicles: From
intelligent grid to autonomous cars and vehicular clouds,” inProceedings
of the IEEE World Forum on Internet of Things , Seoul, Korea, March
2014, pp. 241–246.
[3] R. Miucic, A. Sheikh, Z. Medenica, and R. Kunde, “V2x applications
using collaborative perception,” in Proceedings of the IEEE 88th Vehic-
ular Technology Conference , Hilton, Chicago, USA, August 2018, pp.
1–6.
[4] Q. Chen, S. Tang, Q. Yang, and S. Fu, “Cooper: Cooperative perception
for connected autonomous vehicles based on 3d point clouds,” in
Proceedings of IEEE 39th International Conference on Distributed
Computing Systems, Dallas, TX, USA, July 2019, pp. 514–524.
[5] A. Rauch, F. Klanner, R. Rasshofer, and K. Dietmayer, “Car2x-based
perception in a high-level fusion architecture for cooperative perception
systems,” in Proceedings of IEEE Intelligent Vehicles Symposium, Alcala
de Henares, Spain, June 2012, pp. 270–275.
[6] Z. Y . Rawashdeh and Z. Wang, “Collaborative automated driving: A
machine learning-based method to enhance the accuracy of shared
information,” in Proceedings of IEEE 21st International Conference on
Intelligent Transportation Systems, Maui, HI, USA, November 2018, pp.
3961–3966.
[7] J. Cui, H. Qiu, D. Chen, P. Stone, and Y . Zhu, “Coopernaut: End-to-
end driving with cooperative perception for networked vehicles,” in
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition, New Orleans, LA, USA, June 2022, pp. 17 252–
17 262.
[8] J. Guo, D. Carrillo, S. Tang, Q. Chen, Q. Yang, S. Fu, X. Wang,
N. Wang, and P. Palacharla, “Coff: Cooperative spatial feature fusion for
3-d object detection on autonomous vehicles,” IEEE Internet of Things
Journal, vol. 8, no. 14, pp. 11 078–11 087, 2021.
[9] T.-H. Wang, S. Manivasagam, M. Liang, B. Yang, W. Zeng, and R. Urta-
sun, “V2vnet: Vehicle-to-vehicle communication for joint perception and
prediction,” in Proceedings of the European Conference on Computer
Vision, Glasgow, UK, August 2020, pp. 605–621.
[10] R. Xu, H. Xiang, Z. Tu, X. Xia, M.-H. Yang, and J. Ma, “V2x-vit:
Vehicle-to-everything cooperative perception with vision transformer,”
in Proceedings of the European Conference on Computer Vision , Tel
Aviv, Israel, October 2022, pp. 107–124.
[11] Y . Hu, S. Fang, Z. Lei, Y . Zhong, and S. Chen, “Where2comm:
Communication-efficient collaborative perception via spatial confidence
maps,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2209.12836 , 2022.
[12] Y .-C. Liu, J. Tian, C.-Y . Ma, N. Glaser, C.-W. Kuo, and Z. Kira,
“Who2com: Collaborative perception via learnable handshake commu-
nication,” in Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on Robotics
and Automation (ICRA) , Paris, France, May 2020, pp. 6876–6883.
[13] Y .-C. Liu, J. Tian, N. Glaser, and Z. Kira, “When2com: Multi-agent
perception via communication graph grouping,” in Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition ,
Seattle, W A, USA, June 2020, pp. 4106–4115.
[14] R. Xu, H. Xiang, X. Xia, X. Han, J. Li, and J. Ma, “Opv2v: An
open benchmark dataset and fusion pipeline for perception with vehicle-
to-vehicle communication,” in Proceedings of the IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA) , Paris, France, May
2022, pp. 2583–2589.
[15] A. N. Ahmed, S. Mercelis, and A. Anwar, “Attention based fea-
ture fusion for multi-agent collaborative perception,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.02061, May 2023.
[16] D. Qiao and F. Zulkernine, “Adaptive feature fusion for cooperative
perception using lidar point clouds,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Winter Conference on Applications of Computer Vision , Waikoloa, HI,
USA, Jan 2023, pp. 1186–1195.
[17] J. Li, R. Xu, X. Liu, J. Ma, Z. Chi, J. Ma, and H. Yu, “Learning for
vehicle-to-vehicle cooperative perception under lossy communication,”
IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Vehicles, vol. 8, no. 4, pp. 2650–2660,
2023.
[18] Y . Lu, Q. Li, B. Liu, M. Dianati, C. Feng, S. Chen, and Y . Wang,
“Robust collaborative 3d object detection in presence of pose errors,”
in Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Robotics and
Automation, ExCeL London, United Kingdom, May 2023, pp. 4812–
4818.
[19] M. Schlichtkrull, T. N. Kipf, P. Bloem, R. Van Den Berg, I. Titov,
and M. Welling, “Modeling relational data with graph convolutional
networks,” in Proceedings of the European Semantic Web Conference ,
Heraklion, Crete, Greece, June 2018, pp. 593–607.
[20] H. Fan, B. Xiong, K. Mangalam, Y . Li, Z. Yan, J. Malik, and C. Feichten-
hofer, “Multiscale vision transformers,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Nashville, TN,
USA, June 2021, pp. 6824–6835.
[21] S. Woo, J. Park, J.-Y . Lee, and I. S. Kweon, “Cbam: Convolutional
block attention module,” in Proceedings of the European Conference on
Computer Vision, Munich, Germany, September 2018, pp. 3–19.
[22] R. Xu, X. Xia, J. Li, H. Li, S. Zhang, Z. Tu, Z. Meng, H. Xiang,
X. Dong, R. Song et al. , “V2v4real: A real-world large-scale dataset
for vehicle-to-vehicle cooperative perception,” in Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition ,
Vancouver, Canada, June 2023, pp. 13 712–13 722.
[23] X. Chen, H. Ma, J. Wan, B. Li, and T. Xia, “Multi-view 3d object
detection network for autonomous driving,” in Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition ,
Honolulu, HI, USA, July 2017, pp. 1907–1915.
[24] W. Luo, J. Xing, A. Milan, X. Zhang, W. Liu, and T.-K. Kim, “Multiple
object tracking: A literature review,” Artificial intelligence, vol. 293, pp.
103 448–103 496, February 2021.
[25] S. Minaee, Y . Boykov, F. Porikli, A. Plaza, N. Kehtarnavaz, and D. Ter-
zopoulos, “Image segmentation using deep learning: A survey,” IEEE
Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence , vol. 44,
no. 7, pp. 3523–3542, 2021.
[26] C. Godard, O. Mac Aodha, and G. J. Brostow, “Unsupervised monocular
depth estimation with left-right consistency,” in Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition ,
Honolulu, HI, USA, July 2017, pp. 270–279.
[27] E. Arnold, O. Y . Al-Jarrah, M. Dianati, S. Fallah, D. Oxtoby, and
A. Mouzakitis, “A survey on 3d object detection methods for au-
tonomous driving applications,” IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Trans-
portation Systems, vol. 20, no. 10, pp. 3782–3795, 2019.
[28] R. Qian, X. Lai, and X. Li, “3d object detection for autonomous driving:
A survey,” Pattern Recognition, vol. 130, p. 108796, 2022.
[29] Y . Li, L. Ma, Z. Zhong, F. Liu, M. A. Chapman, D. Cao, and J. Li,
“Deep learning for lidar point clouds in autonomous driving: A review,”
IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems , vol. 32,
no. 8, pp. 3412–3432, 2020.
[30] Y . Zhou and O. Tuzel, “V oxelnet: End-to-end learning for point cloud
based 3d object detection,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Salt Lake City, UT, USA,
June 2018, pp. 4490–4499.
13
[31] Y . Wang, A. Fathi, A. Kundu, D. A. Ross, C. Pantofaru, T. Funkhouser,
and J. Solomon, “Pillar-based object detection for autonomous driving,”
in Proceedings of the European Conference on Computer Vision , Glas-
gow, UK, August 2020, pp. 18–34.
[32] G. Cui, W. Zhang, Y . Xiao, L. Yao, and Z. Fang, “Cooperative per-
ception technology of autonomous driving in the Internet of vehicles
environment: A review,” Sensors, vol. 22, no. 15, pp. 5535–5565, 2022.
[33] A. H. Lang, S. V ora, H. Caesar, L. Zhou, J. Yang, and O. Beijbom,
“Pointpillars: Fast encoders for object detection from point clouds,”
in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition, Long Beach, CA, USA, June 2019, pp. 12 697–
12 705.
[34] R. Dobbe, D. Fridovich-Keil, and C. Tomlin, “Fully decentralized
policies for multi-agent systems: An information theoretic approach,”
Advances in neural information processing systems , vol. 30, 2017.
[35] 3GPP, “3gpp TR 38.901 v17.0.0: Study on channel model for
frequencies from 0.5 to 100 ghz,” 2022. [Online]. Available:
https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/38 series/38.901/38901-h00.zip
[36] J. Revaud, J. Almaz ´an, R. S. Rezende, and C. R. d. Souza, “Learning
with average precision: Training image retrieval with a listwise loss,” in
Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision ,
Seoul,Korea, October 2019, pp. 5107–5116.
[37] T.-Y . Lin, P. Goyal, R. Girshick, K. He, and P. Doll ´ar, “Focal loss
for dense object detection,” in Proceedings of the IEEE International
Conference on Computer Vision, Venice, Italy, October 2017, pp. 2980–
2988.
[38] A. R. Sutanto and D.-K. Kang, “A novel diminish smooth l1 loss model
with generative adversarial network,” in Proceedings of the Intelligent
Human Computer Interaction: 12th International Conference , Daegu,
South Korea, November 2021, pp. Part I 12, 361–368.
[39] X. Ding, Y . Guo, G. Ding, and J. Han, “Acnet: Strengthening the
kernel skeletons for powerful cnn via asymmetric convolution blocks,” in
Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision .
Seoul, Korea: IEEE, October 2019, pp. 1911–1920.
[40] A. Vaswani, N. Shazeer, N. Parmar, J. Uszkoreit, L. Jones, A. N. Gomez,
Ł. Kaiser, and I. Polosukhin, “Attention is all you need,” Advances in
neural information processing systems , vol. 30, December 2017.
[41] H. Noh, S. Hong, and B. Han, “Learning deconvolution network
for semantic segmentation,” in Proceedings of the IEEE International
Conference on Computer Vision , Santiago, Chile, December 2015, pp.
1520–1528.
[42] A. Geiger, P. Lenz, C. Stiller, and R. Urtasun, “Vision meets robotics:
The kitti dataset,” The International Journal of Robotics Research ,
vol. 32, no. 11, pp. 1231–1237, 2013.
[43] H. Caesar, V . Bankiti, A. H. Lang, S. V ora, V . E. Liong, Q. Xu,
A. Krishnan, Y . Pan, G. Baldan, and O. Beijbom, “nuscenes: A multi-
modal dataset for autonomous driving,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , Seattle, W A,
USA, June 2020, pp. 11 621–11 631.
[44] A. Dosovitskiy, G. Ros, F. Codevilla, A. Lopez, and V . Koltun, “Carla:
An open urban driving simulator,” inProceedings of the 1st Annual Con-
ference on Robot Learning, Mountain View, California, USA, November
2017, pp. 1–16.
[45] P. A. Lopez, M. Behrisch, L. Bieker-Walz, J. Erdmann, Y .-P. Fl ¨otter¨od,
R. Hilbrich, L. L ¨ucken, J. Rummel, P. Wagner, and E. Wießner, “Micro-
scopic traffic simulation using sumo,” in Proceedings of the IEEE Inter-
national Intelligent Transportation Systems Conference , Maui, Hawaii,
United States, November 2018, pp. 2575–2582.
[46] R. Xu, Y . Guo, X. Han, X. Xia, H. Xiang, and J. Ma, “Opencda:
an open cooperative driving automation framework integrated with
co-simulation,” in Proceedings of the IEEE International Intelligent
Transportation Systems Conference , Indianapolis, IN, United States,
September 2021, pp. 1155–1162.
[47] A. Bazzi, B. M. Masini, A. Zanella, and I. Thibault, “On the performance
of IEEE 802.11 p and LTE-V2V for the cooperative awareness of con-
nected vehicles,” IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology , vol. 66,
no. 11, pp. 10 419–10 432, 2017.