SmartCooper: Vehicular Collaborative Perception
with Adaptive Fusion and Judger Mechanism
Yuang Zhang1, Haonan An 2, Zhengru Fang 3, Guowen Xu 3, Yuan Zhou 2, Xianhao Chen 4, Yuguang Fang 3
Abstract—In recent years, autonomous driving has garnered
significant attention due to its potential for improving road
safety through collaborative perception among connected and
autonomous vehicles (CA Vs). However, time-varying channel
variations in vehicular transmission environments demand dy-
namic allocation of communication resources. Moreover, in the
context of collaborative perception, it is important to recognize
that not all CA Vs contribute valuable data, and some CA V
data even have detrimental effects on collaborative perception.
In this paper, we introduce SmartCooper, an adaptive collabo-
rative perception framework that incorporates communication
optimization and a judger mechanism to facilitate CA V data
fusion. Our approach begins with optimizing the connectivity of
vehicles while considering communication constraints. We then
train a learnable encoder to dynamically adjust the compression
ratio based on the channel state information (CSI). Subse-
quently, we devise a judger mechanism to filter the detrimental
image data reconstructed by adaptive decoders. We evaluate
the effectiveness of our proposed algorithm on the OpenCOOD
platform. Our results demonstrate a substantial reduction in
communication costs by 23.10% compared to the non-judger
scheme. Additionally, we achieve a significant improvement on
the average precision of Intersection over Union (AP@IoU) by
7.15% compared with state-of-the-art schemes.
I. I NTRODUCTION
Over the past few decades, autonomous driving perception
technology has witnessed remarkable progress, thanks to
the rapid advances of computer vision and deep learning
techniques [4] [12]. This technology relies predominantly
on two types of data sources: image data and point cloud
data, both acquired from on-board sensors in real-world
scenarios or generated through simulation platforms [16]. In
terms of real-world data, researchers have proposed extensive
public datasets like KITTI [8] and nuScenes [2]. By using
simulation platforms like CARLA [6], simulation datasets
like OPV2V [27] and SHIFT [22], usually include a wider
range of scenarios and weather conditions, along with com-
prehensive annotation information, thereby facilitating the
studies of autonomous driving perception. Numerous single-
vehicle perception methods have been rigorously tested and
validated on both real-world and simulation datasets [4],
[15], [26]. However, recent developments in communication
1Department of Automation, Tsinghua University. zya21@mails.tsi
nghua.edu.cn
2School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Nanyang Technological
University. {an0029an, yzhou027}@e.ntu.edu.sg
3Department of Computer Science, City University of Hong Kong. zhef
ang4-c@my.cityu.edu.hk, {guowenxu, my.Fang}@cityu.e
du.hk
4Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, The University of
Hong Kong. xchen@eee.hku.hk
technology and the advent of CA Vs have thrusted collabo-
rative perception into the forefront of autonomous driving
research [23] [11]. In contrast to single-vehicle perception,
collaborative perception extends the scope of perception
and effectively mitigates blind spots [25]. This allows au-
tonomous vehicles to comprehensively perceive their sur-
roundings, leading to more effective decision-making [5].
Specifically, collaborative perception systems facilitate the
sharing of perception data among CA Vs [18]. Each CA V
benefits from a broader sensing range than single-vehicle
perception, thus aggregating global and local information
to optimize perception results [14] [10]. Existing studies
have introduced various collaborative perception methods,
including a perception framework based on point cloud
features [3] and a collaborative perception framework based
on Bird’s-Eye View (BEV), which refers to the top view of
a scene, and vision [28].
Nonetheless, several challenges persist in current collabo-
rative perception research, particularly when applied to real-
world scenarios. Firstly, the data collected by vehicular sen-
sors, comprising image sequences and point cloud data, often
pose a significant volume challenge. Regarding image data,
contemporary cameras, exemplified by Google’s autonomous
vehicles (A Vs), are capable of capturing a staggering 750
megabytes of data per second [9]. As for point cloud data,
using KITTI [8] as an illustration, even the smallest sequence
contains upwards of 10 million data points [17]. The sheer
volume of data can easily congest communication channels
and potentially result in significant delays or packet loss,
thereby restricting effective data sharing among CA Vs. More-
over, the real-world communication landscape is far from
ideal, and with constrained spectrum resources is difficult
to enable real-time data transmissions in Vehicle-to-Vehicle
(V2V) networks [4]. Specifically, channel quality fluctuates
over time, and the limited bandwidth cannot guarantee con-
sistent real-time and complete data transmission from all
vehicles. Some prior studies have already recognized these
challenges and initiated efforts to address them. For instance,
Hu et al. proposed an efficient communication framework,
Where2comm, incorporating an attention-based mechanism
to enhance perception performance and mitigate bandwidth
pressures [13]. Similarly, Wang et al. introduced a viable
approach wherein each agent transmits compressed feature
maps, successfully alleviating communication burdens [24].
However, these approaches often assume that channel con-
dition remains time-invariant and fail to account for dy-
namic channel variations. In contrast, channel-aware methods
prioritize the real-time fluctuations in channel conditions
arXiv:2402.00321v3  [cs.CV]  4 Mar 2024
among CA Vs, adjusting data transmissions accordingly. This
dynamic adaptation optimizes communication, ensuring the
efficacy of collaborative perception.
Secondly, data compression for CA Vs also affects the per-
formance of collaborative perception significantly. However,
existing data compression schemes exhibit notable deficien-
cies. Previous compression methods have typically employed
a uniform “fairness scheme” [21], which uniformly applies
the same compression ratio to all CA V data. Unfortunately,
this fairness scheme overlooks the fact that CA Vs in a V2V
network contribute perception data differently in data fusion.
Some CA Vs, situated at some locations, can significantly
extend sensing coverage and enhance collaborative percep-
tion, while others, with obscured views, provide minimal
assistance to data fusion. Moreover, it is crucial to recognize
that not all data from CA Vs is beneficial. Certain CA Vs may
be situated at the edge of perception or suffer from severe
communication delays, potentially having a detrimental im-
pact on data fusion and consequently reducing the accuracy
of collaborative perception. Thus, a judger mechanism is
needed to assess and prioritize CA Vs based on their spatial
location and sensing coverage. This mechanism can then
eliminate low-quality data, enabling efficient CA V data fusion
and perception.
Finally, most existing collaborative perception schemes
assume that the wireless channel is ideal, ignoring the dy-
namic characteristics of the channel and the mechanism of
filtering the perception data. If the dynamic nature of the
channel is taken into account, the compression ratio can be
flexibly adjusted and the communication can be optimized.
Moreover, the priority can be set adaptively according to the
sensing coverage and data quality of CA Vs. In contrast to
the previous studies, in this paper, we propose SmartCooper,
an adaptive collaborative perception framework with channel-
aware communication optimization and judger mechanism to
enable efficient CA Vs’ data fusion. Our main contributions
are summarized as follows.
• To the best of our knowledge, SmartCooper is the first
that comprehensively considers CA V data judger mech-
anism. We design a novel judger to filter reconstructed
image data according to the sensing coverage. Specifi-
cally, our judger scores reconstructed image sequences
based on the union of sensing coverage, then removes
data with negative gains to improve the accuracy of col-
laborative perception and reduce communication cost.
• We propose a channel-aware communication optimizing
scheme to adapt to the channel state. Specifically, we
leverage an adaptive encoder to adjust the compression
ratio of data delivered by CA Vs according to the real-
time channel state, ensuring real-time and high-quality
data transmission for CA V data fusion.
• With the OpenCOOD platform [27], we conduct ex-
tensive experiments to validate the effectiveness of our
proposed scheme by comparing it with the state-of-the-
art methods. Under the same channel condition, the
communication cost shows a significant reduction by
at least 23.10%, and AP@IoU (the average precision of
Intersection over Union), which evaluates the accuracy
of perception, is significantly improved by 7.15%.
II. R ELATED WORK
A. Collaborative Perception
Due to the limited sensing range of a vehicle’s sensors,
CA Vs are unable to sense the imminent dangers behind
certain hard-to-observe corners. However, collaboration with
other CA Vs can expand its sensing coverage, thus reducing
safety risks. Numerous works on collaborative perception
have already been carried out lately. Wang et al. [24] pro-
posed V2V collaboration based on point cloud data, while
Xu et al. [28] introduced V2V collaboration using 2D image
data. Although these studies have demonstrated promising
results on test datasets, they often assume an ideal channel
environment for V2V collaboration. When these methods are
applied in real-world scenarios, the presence of non-ideal
communication channels will cause serious problems such
as long latency and high packet loss because of the resulting
reduced transmission rate. Thus, while these approaches have
shown potential, their effectiveness under realistic channel
conditions needs further consideration.
B. Which V ehicle to Communicate
The choice of vehicles to participate in collaboration not
only significantly impacts spectrum consumption but also
the quality of fused sensing results, thereby affecting the
overall performance of cooperation. Therefore, the selection
of which vehicles to participate is of great importance. Liu
et al. [19] proposed a three-stage handshake mechanism for
communication selection. Specifically, participating vehicles
are chosen based on matching scores computed between
the data from the degraded agent and data from all other
normal agents. Hu et al. [13] suggested establishing a spatial
confidence map for participating vehicle selection. However,
most of these methods heavily rely on attention mechanisms
to build an evaluation system. Assuming a data volume
with N participating vehicles, attention mechanisms implies
a time complexity of O(N 2) for communications, a non-
negligible cost that could result in additional latency.
III. O UR PROPOSED SCHEME
In this section, we introduce our proposed adaptive col-
laborative scheme for CA Vs. Firstly, in Sec. III-A, we
mathematically model the channel conditions in practical
communication scenarios, thus defining the adaptive factors
required for CA Vs in practical settings. Next, in Sec. III-B1,
we conduct a concise experiment to illustrate the drawbacks
of solely optimizing communication parameters for enhanc-
ing collaborative quality. Then, in Sec. III-B2, we introduce
a scoring mechanism based on the perceptual gains of the
Ego CA V to address the shortcomings mentioned in Sec.
III-B1, that is, some CA Vs may have detrimental effects on
sensing data fusion. Finally, in Sec. III-C we combine the
two adaptive strategies and show our comprehensive network
architecture.
TABLE I: The collaborative results for different numbers of
CA Vs under both ideal and non-ideal conditions.
AP@IoU
Parameters #CA Vs
1 2 3 4
Ideal 0.252 0.582 0.668 0.673
Non-ideal 0.252 0.579 0.656 0.642
A. Channel-aware Optimization
1) CA V Communication Scheme: In view of the fact
that the actual communication situation is not ideal, we
propose a channel-aware communication optimizing scheme.
We formulate the channel capacity optimization under CA Vs’
actual communication conditions, and propose our adaptive
communication scheme. In accordance with the 5G standards
by 3GPP [1], [7], CA Vs primarily rely on Cellular Vehicle-
to-Everything (C-V2X) employing Orthogonal Frequency
Division Multiplexing (OFDM). The capacity of each sub-
channel SC ij is given by:
SC ij = W
N log2
"
1 + Hij ∗ PT
ρn ∗
  W
N

#
, (1)
where W denotes the total bandwidth, N the number of
sub-channels, SC ij the sub-channel capacity from the ith
transmitter to the jth receiver, Hij the channel gain from the
ith transmitter to the jth receiver, PT the transmit power, and
ρn the noise power spectral density.
2) Channel-aware Adjuster: Based on the above model-
ing, we get the sub-channel capacity SCij. Moreover, we
propose a channel-aware adjuster to adaptively adjust the
compression ratio of each agent’s data according to the com-
munication capacity of the sub-channel. The compression
ratio α∗
ij of each sub-channel is given by:
α∗
ij = SC ij
Vij
, (2)
where α∗ij is the compression ratio of the data transmitted
from the ith transmitter to the jth receiver, and Vij is
the volume of data transmitted from the ith transmitter to
the jth receiver. Since the volume of data transmitted is
often greater than the capacity of a single sub-channel, the
compression ratio satisfies: 0 ≤ α∗ij ≤ 1, α∗ij ∈ R+. Based
on this, the adaptive reconstruction structure is designed
as follows: we utilize channel-aware adjuster to modulate
the compression ratio of the transmitted data for each CA V
according to the capacity of the sub-channel, then the encoder
transmits the compressed data, and the decoder receives the
information transmitted over the sub-channel and enables the
reconstruction.
B. Adaptive Judger Mechanism
1) Disadvantage Analysis: The proposed method in Sec.
III-A can adaptively allocate communication resources to
different CA Vs based on the channel conditions, thereby
enhancing the performance of V2V collaborative perception.
However, we have observed that the optimized collaborative
(a) Score Increasing
s1 s2 (b) Maximum Score
(c) Score Decreasing
 (d) Score equal to zero
Fig. 1: Four possible scoring scenarios where the orange
represents the Ego CA V , and the green represents CA V1.
data may not always lead to positive gains (i.e., it might
potentially degrade the perception performance of the Ego
CA V). To illustrate this issue, we conducted a straightforward
yet convincing experiment. The results are summarized in
Table I.
In our experiment, we employ a test dataset from OPV2V
[27] involving a collaborative network of four CA Vs. To
systematically analyze the impact of participating CA Vs on
collaborative perception, we increase the number of col-
laborating CA Vs incrementally based on their distance to
the Ego CA V . Notably, when the number of CA Vs equals
1, it signifies the presence of only the Ego CA V , with no
collaborative perception taking place. We conducted tests to
measure AP@IoU for the collaborative network under two
distinct scenarios: ideal condition and non-ideal condition
(Transmissions under non-ideal condition are achieved by
adaptively allocating channel resources using the approach
outlined in Sec. III-A). Under ideal channel conditions,
data transmission does not require any compression. When
increasing the number of CA Vs, AP@IoU also increases
simultaneously. This occurs because different CA Vs expand
the Ego CA V’s sensing coverage, enhancing its understand-
ing of the surrounding environment. However, under non-
ideal channel conditions, an interesting phenomenon emerges
when increasing the number of CA Vs. Initially, AP@IoU
increases, but then it starts to decrease. It indicates that not
all CA Vs contribute positively under non-ideal conditions.
Therefore, we conclude that optimizing the channel under
non-ideal conditions alone is insufficient to achieve optimal
collaborative performance.
2) Scoring & Threshold Scheme: In this subsection, we in-
troduce our judger mechanism based on scoring and threshold
to mitigate the detrimental impact of the data with negative
gain on collaborative quality. Specifically, as for the Ego
CA V , we define a predetermined maximum collaborative
sensing coverage (MCSC) as dmax. Additionally, for each
CA V , we define the individual sensing coverage denoted as
dsingle for each CA V , including the ego CA V , as follows:
dsingle < dmax. (3)
Hence, the sensing coverage of each individual CA V can be
obtained as follows:
s = π × d2
single − sotr, (4)
CAV 1
CAV 2
CAV 3
Channel-Aware Adjuster
 Judger
BitStream
BitStream
BitStream
BitStream
BitStream
BitStream
Fusion
Net
Ego CAV 
Adaptive Decoder
Compression ratio α*
Multi-view images BEV PredictionAdaptive Encoder
Compression ratio α*
Channel State Infomation
Fig. 2: Overall architecture of SmartCooper consists of three stages. (1) Network optimization: determining the parameters
of CSI to output the optimized compression ratio α∗. (2) Transmission & Judgement: Each CA V transmits its compressed
image data to the Ego CA V and receives a judgment. (3) Fusion: the qualified reconstructed images are combined with the
Ego CA V’s image to generate a BEV through the fusion net.
where sotr represents the area out of MCSC. Meanwhile, we
define the score of each CA V , or rather, the collaborative gain
of the Ego CA V , in the following equation:
score = scav
[
sego − sego. (5)
where scav denotes the sensing coverage of each CA V , and
sego denotes the sensing coverage of ego CA V . Intuitively,
the score captures the sensing area of a collaborative CA V
that the ego CA V cannot sense. The different situations in
which the collaborative gain varies with sensing coverage
among CA Vs are shown in Fig. 1. For the sake of analysis,
we assume that the Ego CA V remains stationary. As CA V
moves, the variations in the collaborative gain of the Ego
CA V exhibit four scenarios: (a) When the distance between
the CA V and the Ego CA V is short, the collaborative gain of
the Ego CA V increases as the CA V approaches. This trend
continues until (b) The intersection of the CA V’s sensing
coverage with the Ego CA V’s sensing coverage equals the
intersection of the CA V’s sensing coverage with MCSC. In
other words, s1 = s2. (c) As the CA V continues to move, the
collaborative gain of the Ego CA V gradually decreases due
to most of perception part exceeding MCSC until (d) The
CA V moves entirely out of MCSC.
According to Eq. (1) and Eq. (2), the farther a CA V is from
the Ego CA V within the MCSC, the fewer channel resources
it will be allocated. Additionally, CA Vs located far from the
Ego CA V obtain low scores based on Eq. (5). These two
factors are combined to find CA Vs near the vicinity of the
MCSC contributing poorer quality and less impactful data to
the collaboration with the Ego CA V . Consequently, lack of
the consideration of the impact of the detrimental data can
lead to interference or even errors. This phenomenon explains
the situation observed in cases when an increased number
of participating CA Vs results in a reduction in collaborative
performance in Table I. Hence, guided by experimental data,
we have established a threshold based on the experience.
This threshold serves to mitigate the adverse impact of
detrimental data on collaborative quality. Data falling below
the established threshold is discarded outright, while data
surpassing the threshold is retained for further processing.
It is worth noting that, compared to the previous selection
strategies based on attention mechanisms, SmartCooper has
a lower computational complexity. Assuming there are N
CA Vs participating in collaboration, the time complexity of
the attention mechanism is O(N 2), whereas SmartCooper
has a time complexity of O(N ).
C. Overall Architecture
To combine our proposed methods, we show the overall
architecture in Fig. 2 and the overall algorithm in Algorithm
1. Our proposed SmartCooper is divided into three stages.
(1) The first stage is network optimization: The network
optimization process involves collecting parameters from the
actual communication environment to compute the optimized
compression ratio α∗ for both the Adaptive Encoder and
Adaptive Decoder. In the case of the Adaptive Encoder
and Adaptive Decoder, we have directly implemented the
Modulated Autoencoder [29]. This framework allows for a
trade-off between bitrate and distortion by utilizing trade-
off parameters. These trade-off parameters correspond one-
to-one to compression ratios. Therefore, by adjusting the
compression ratio, we can adapt the trade-off parameters.
(2) The second stage is transmission & judgement:
Each CA V compresses its own camera’s image data and
transforms it into a bitstream using the Adaptive Encoder.
These bitstreams are then transmitted to the Ego CA V . Upon
receiving the bitstreams, the Ego CA V reconstructs them
into image data using the Adaptive Decoder. Subsequently,
a scoring and decision-making process is carried out by the
Judger. Images that surpass a specified threshold, along with
the Ego CA V’s own camera data, are jointly used as inputs
and passed to the Fusion Net.
(3) The last stage is fusion: We adapt the Fusion Net, i.e.,
CoBEVT [28], which is designed for the fusion of vehicular
camera data. It conducts merging data from various vehicles
and produces a BEV output.
Algorithm 1 SmartCooper: Vehicle Collaborative Perception
under Adaptive Fusion
Require: Input ego CA V’s image sequence: Ie. CA Vs’ image
sequence set: {Ii}. Adaptive encoders: EA. Adaptive decoders:
DA. The channel parameters: N, W , PT , H, ρn. The volume of
data transmitted: V . The vehicle coordinates: {C0, ..., CN −1}.
Ensure: Output BEV prediction results and AP@IoU scores.
1: for i from 0 to N − 1 do
2: Calculate the adaptive compression ratio α∗
i by Eq. (2);
3: The encoder EA learns to compress raw image consequence
Ii, then converts them into bistreams;
4: Current vehicle CAV i transmits bistreams to ego A V;
5: The decoder DA reconstructs the image sequence and obtain
new image consequence ˙Ii;
6: end for
7: for i from 0 to N − 1 do
8: Calculate the perception union of the current vehicle CAV i
and ego CA V using coordinates {C0, ..., CN −1};
9: Judger scores new image sequence ˙Ii based on the union of
sensing coverage.
10: end for
11: Judger removes the image sequences whose scores are lower
than the threshold, then obtain the qualified image sequence set
{ ¨Ij}.
12: Use fusion net to combine the qualified image sequences ¨Ij
with ego CA V’s image sequence Ie to conduct BEV prediction
results and AP@IoU scores.
IV. E XPERIMENTS
In this section, we conduct our experiments to evaluate
our proposed scheme. We first set up the experiments un-
der different transmission powers and bandwidths. We then
compare the performance of our SmartCooper and several
non-adaptive methods, respectively. Finally, we show the
IoU results and visualize the performance of collaborative
perception with the predicted BEV .
A. Dataset
We conduct experiments using the CA V simulation plat-
form OpenCOOD and validate our method on OPV2V
dataset [27], which is collected from the CARLA simulator
[6]. The dataset contains 6 road types, 73 different scenes,
232,913 marked 3D detection bounding boxes. The total
point cloud and RGB image data volume exceeds 240 GB.
B. Baselines
C-AOL (Channel-aware only): This scheme denotes that
we only use our communication optimizing scheme and
adaptive encoder without the adaptive scoring scheme.
TWD (Transmission with distribution): This scheme is
based on the work of X. Lyu [20], which uses distributed
methods for optimization in communication.
TWF (Transmission with fairness): This scheme is
based on study [21], which mainly distributes communication
resources to each sub-channel fairly based on Jain’s Network
Starvation Fairness Index.
No Fusion: This scheme does not use any collaborative
perception, in which ego CA V only uses the information it
perceives and does not receive data from other CA Vs.
Fig. 3: Comparison between SmartCooper and C-AOL for
the Minimum Required Bandwidth under different power
conditions.
C. Settings
Our experimental setup complies with 3GPP standards
[1]. The basic settings are shown as follows. A vehicle has
sensing coverage of up to 70 meters and speeds within the
range of 0-50 km/h. The default value of the number of
cooperative vehicles is 3, and the upper bound of the number
of sub-channels N is 3. Most scenarios in the OPV2V
dataset [27] involve collaboration among three or four CA Vs.
Therefore, the filtering threshold for the judger mechanism is
set as follows: In a scenario with three CA Vs, the threshold
will eliminate data from CA Vs whose normalized score is
below 0.4 and whose distance from the Ego CA V exceeds
0.5dmax. In a scenario with four CA Vs, the threshold will
remove data from CA Vs whose normalizedscore falls below
0.3 and whose distance from the Ego CA V is greater than
0.5dmax. Other parameters are set as follows. The default
value of the total bandwidth W is set to 200 MHz, and the
default value of the transmission power PT of each vehicle
is set to 8 mW. In addition, the road is a bilateral highway
with three lanes for vehicles in each direction and with all
vehicles uniformly distributed on the road.
D. Experimental Results
We compare the proposed SmartCooper with four base-
lines (C-AOL, TWD, TWF and No Fusion). Table II shows
the performance results under different transmission power
and bandwidth. The experimental results clearly show that
our SmartCooper performs better than all baseline schemes.
Specifically, SmartCooper achieves superior AP@IoU scores:
in collaborative perception scenes, the AP@IoU scores of
SmartCooper outperform TWD by an average of 7.15 % and
TWF by 5.65 % under the same power level. Compared with
No Fusion scheme, SmartCooper’s AP@IoU scores are at
least 25.8 % better. When focusing solely on communica-
tion optimization, that is, using the C-AOL scheme, the
AP@IoU scores outperform TWD by an average of 6.72 %,
TWF by 5.24 %, and No Fusion scheme by 65.3 % under
the same power level. Compared with the C-AOL scheme,
SmartCooper adds an adaptive judger to filter vehicles at
the boundary of the sensing coverage, thereby eliminating
the impact of the data with negative gain on data fusion,
TABLE II: Comparing SmartCooper with four baseline meth-
ods across various parameter settings in relation to perception
accuracy.
AP@IoU
Parameters Power (mW) Bandwidth (MHz)
4 8 12 100 150 200
No Fusion 0.409 0.409 0.409 0.409 0.409 0.409
TWD 0.600 0.633 0.669 0.669 0.669 0.669
TWF 0.641 0.642 0.643 0.668 0.672 0.669
C-AOL 0.663 0.680 0.684 0.673 0.672 0.675
SmartCooper 0.667 0.682 0.686 0.686 0.686 0.686
so the perception performance is better. SmartCooper and
C-AOL allocate channel capacity adaptively according to
the importance of CA V perception data, while the TWF
scheme allocates channel resources fairly, which, in real-
world communication environment, is likely to cause some
important CA Vs to request more communication resources,
resulting in poor transmission quality and a deterioration in
the collaborative perception. Notice that the data delivered
by the TWD scheme is not compressed, which will generate
transmission delay under the limited channel capacity. When
data of different time scales are fused, the perception results
may deteriorate. For No Fusion, SmartCooper and C-AOL
integrate information from multiple vehicles, leading to a
wider sensing coverage, more comprehensive information,
and better perception results than No Fusion.
Under practical communication conditions, channel-aware
optimization that we propose can significantly improve col-
laborative perception performance. Furthermore, our pro-
posed SmartCooper not only further enhances collaborative
perception quality compared to channel-aware-only optimiza-
tion but also reduces the minimum required bandwidth for
collaboration. In Fig. 3, SmartCooper reduces the minimum
required bandwidth by at least 23.10% compared to channel-
aware optimization. SmartCooper achieves this by intercept-
ing detrimental data to reduce communication overhead while
simultaneously improving collaborative perception quality.
Fig. 4 presents the BEV prediction results of (a)
Groundtruth, (b) SmartCooper, (c) C-AOL, (d) TWF, (e)
TWD and (f) No Fusion at the same time scale and with the
same scenario. Groundtruth is the standard result under abso-
lutely ideal condition. For perception schemes, we especially
use MD and FD to intuitively denote the errors in prediction
results where MD denotes the missed detection, and FD
the false detection. Both errors are labeled in each figure.
From the visual comparison, our scheme SmartCooper does
not have any MD and FD problems and performs the best
compared with the baselines. The C-AOL method without
Adaptive Scoring mechanism only has one MD problem
according to Fig. 4(c). As shown in Figs. 4(d) and 4(e),
both TWF and TWD have more MD errors. In Fig. 4(f), the
No Fusion scheme of single-vehicle detection has not only
many MD errors, but also obvious FD errors, which means
that it incorrectly predicts roads that do not actually exist.
The comparisons of the above results verify the superior
performance of our SmartCooper scheme.
(a) Groundtruth
 (b) SmartCooper
MD x 1
(c) C-AOL
MD x 3 (d) TWF
MD x 7
(e) TWD
MD x 10FD FD (f) No Fusion
Fig. 4: The comparison of SmartCooper with four baseline
methods in terms of BEV prediction.
V. C ONCLUSIONS
In this paper, we have developed SmartCooper, a scheme
aimed at enhancing V2V collaborative perception perfor-
mance under practical dynamic channel conditions. We first
propose C-AOL to ensure collaborative perception quality in
actual communication environments by dynamically adjust-
ing compression ratios. However, continuing to increase the
number of participating CA Vs does not necessarily lead to
improved collaborative perception performance under practi-
cal channel conditions. Solely relying on channel-aware opti-
mization is insufficient. To solve this problem, SmartCooper
employs a distinctive judger mechanism to score and make
judgments for each CA V , effectively mitigating the adverse
impact of low-quality data on collaborative perception. Ex-
perimental results demonstrate that SmartCooper can reduce
the communication cost by at least 23.10%. In terms of CA V
perception accuracy, SmartCooper outperforms the state-of-
the-art schemes by 7.15% under the same transmission power
level.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This work was supported in part by the Hong Kong
SAR Government under the Global STEM Professorship and
Research Talent Hub and the Hong Kong Jockey Club under
JC STEM Lab of Smart City. The work of X. Chen was
supported in part by HKU IDS Research Seed Fund under
Grant IDS-RSF2023-0012 and HKU-SCF FinTech Academy
R&D Funding.
REFERENCES
[1] W Anwar, N Franchi, and G Fettweis. Physical layer evaluation of
V2X communications technologies: 5G NR-V2X, LTE-V2X, IEEE
802.11bd, and IEEE 802.11p. In IEEE 90th V ehicular Technology
Conference (VTC2019-Fall) , pages 1–7, Honolulu, HI, USA, Sep.
2019.
[2] H Caesar, V Bankiti, A. H Lang, S V ora, V . E Liong, Q Xu, A Krish-
nan, Y Pan, G Baldan, and O Beijbom. nuScenes: A multimodal dataset
for autonomous driving. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference
on computer vision and pattern recognition (CVPR) , pages 11621–
11631, Seattle, USA, Jun. 2020.
[3] Q Chen, X Ma, S Tang, J Guo, Q Yang, and S Fu. F-cooper: Feature
based cooperative perception for autonomous vehicle edge computing
system using 3D point clouds. In Proceedings of the F ourth ACM/IEEE
Symposium on Edge Computing (SEC) , pages 88–100, Washington DC,
USA, Nov. 2019.
[4] X Chen, Y Deng, H Ding, G Qu, H Zhang, P Li, and Y Fang. Vehicle
as a service (VaaS): Leverage vehicles to build service networks
and capabilities for smart cities. IEEE Communications Surveys and
Tutorials, 2023 (doi: 10.1109/COMST.2024.3370169).
[5] G Cui, W Zhang, Y Xiao, L Yao, and Z Fang. Cooperative perception
technology of autonomous driving in the internet of vehicles environ-
ment: A review. Sensors, 22(15):5535, Jul. 2022.
[6] A Dosovitskiy, G Ros, F Codevilla, A Lopez, and V Koltun. CARLA:
An open urban driving simulator. In Conference on Robot Learning
(CoRL), pages 1–16, Mountain View, CA, USA, Oct. 2017.
[7] Z Fang, J Wang, Y Ren, Z Han, H. V Poor, and L Hanzo. Age
of information in energy harvesting aided massive multiple access
networks. IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications ,
40(5):1441–1456, May 2022.
[8] A Geiger, P Lenz, C Stiller, and R Urtasun. Vision meets robotics:
The KITTI dataset. The International Journal of Robotics Research ,
32(11):1231–1237, 2013.
[9] C Hu, W Bao, D Wang, and F Liu. Dynamic adaptive DNN surgery for
inference acceleration on the edge. In IEEE Conference on Computer
Communications (INFOCOM) , pages 1423–1431, Paris, France, Apr.
2019.
[10] Senkang Hu, Zhengru Fang, Haonan An, Guowen Xu, Yuan Zhou,
Xianhao Chen, and Yuguang Fang. Adaptive communications in col-
laborative perception with domain alignment for autonomous driving.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.00013 , 2023.
[11] Senkang Hu, Zhengru Fang, Xianhao Chen, Yuguang Fang, and
Sam Kwong. Towards full-scene domain generalization in multi-
agent collaborative bird’s eye view segmentation for connected and
autonomous driving. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.16754 , 2023.
[12] Senkang Hu, Zhengru Fang, Yiqin Deng, Xianhao Chen, and Yuguang
Fang. Collaborative perception for connected and autonomous driving:
Challenges, possible solutions and opportunities. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2401.01544, 2024.
[13] Yue Hu, Shaoheng Fang, Zixing Lei, Yiqi Zhong, and Siheng Chen.
Where2comm: Communication-efficient collaborative perception via
spatial confidence maps. Advances in neural information processing
systems (NeurlPS) , 35:4874–4886, 2022.
[14] S. W. Kim, B Qin, Z. J. Chong, Shen X, W Liu, M. H. Ang, E Fraz-
zoli, and D Rus. Multivehicle cooperative driving using cooperative
perception: Design and experimental validation. IEEE Transactions on
Intelligent Transportation Systems (TITS) , 16(2):663–680, Aug. 2014.
[15] A. H Lang, S V ora, H Caesar, L Zhou, J Yang, and O Beijbom.
Pointpillars: Fast encoders for object detection from point clouds. In
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and
pattern recognition (CVPR) , pages 12697–12705, Long Beach, CA,
USA, Jun. 2019.
[16] Xingyu Li, Yuang Zhang, Yunda Shi, He Zhu, Jianming Hu, and
Lihui Peng. Quality assessment of image dataset for autonomous
driving. In 2023 IEEE International Conference on Imaging Systems
and Techniques (IST) , pages 1–6, Copenhagen, Denmark, Oct. 2023.
[17] Y Li, L Ma, Z Zhong, F Liu, M. A. Chapman, D Cao, and J Li. Deep
learning for lidar point clouds in autonomous driving: A review. IEEE
Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems , 32(8):3412–
3432, Aug. 2020.
[18] Z Lin, L Wang, J Ding, Y Xu, and B Tan. Tracking and transmission
design in terahertz V2I networks. IEEE Transactions on Wireless
Communications, 22(6):3586–3598, Jun. 2022.
[19] Yen-Cheng Liu, Junjiao Tian, Chih-Yao Ma, Nathan Glaser, Chia-Wen
Kuo, and Zsolt Kira. Who2com: Collaborative perception via learnable
handshake communication. In IEEE International Conference on
Robotics and Automation (ICRA) , pages 6876–6883, Paris, France,
May 2020.
[20] X Lyu, C Zhang, C Ren, and Y Hou. Distributed graph-based
optimization of multicast data dissemination for internet of vehi-
cles. IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems (TITS) ,
24(3):3117–3128, Dec. 2022.
[21] E. R Magsino and I. W.-H Ho. An enhanced information sharing
roadside unit allocation scheme for vehicular networks. IEEE Trans-
actions on Intelligent Transportation Systems (TITS) , 23(9):15462–
–15475, Jan. 2022.
[22] T Sun, M Segu, J Postels, Y Wang, L Van Gool, B Schiele, F Tombari,
and F Yu. SHIFT: A synthetic driving dataset for continuous multi-task
domain adaptation. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on
computer vision and pattern recognition (CVPR) , pages 21371–21382,
New Orleans, LA, USA, Jun. 2022.
[23] A Talebpour and H. S Mahmassani. Influence of connected and
autonomous vehicles on traffic flow stability and throughput. Trans-
portation research part C: emerging technologies , 71:143–163, 2016.
[24] Tsun-Hsuan Wang, Sivabalan Manivasagam, Ming Liang, Bin Yang,
Wenyuan Zeng, and Raquel Urtasun. V2VNet: Vehicle-to-vehicle
communication for joint perception and prediction. In European
Conference on Computer Vision , pages 605–621, Glasgow, UK, Aug.
2020.
[25] W Wei, J Wang, Z Fang, J Chen, Y Ren, and Y Dong. 3U: Joint
design of UA V-USV-UUV networks for cooperative target hunting.
IEEE Transactions on V ehicular Technology , 72(3):4085–4090, Mar.
2022.
[26] D Xu, D Anguelov, and A Jain. PointFusion: Deep sensor fusion for
3D bounding box estimation. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference
on computer vision and pattern recognition (CVPR) , pages 244–253,
Salt Lake City, UT, USA, Jun. 2018.
[27] R Xu, H Xiang, X Xia, X Han, J Li, and J Ma. OPV2V: An open
benchmark dataset and fusion pipeline for perception with vehicle-to-
vehicle communication. In 2022 International Conference on Robotics
and Automation (ICRA) , pages 2583–2589, Philadelphia, PA, USA,
May 2022.
[28] Runsheng Xu, Zhengzhong Tu, Hao Xiang, Wei Shao, Bolei Zhou,
and Jiaqi Ma. CoBEVT: Cooperative bird’s eye view semantic
segmentation with sparse transformers. In Conference on Robot
Learning (CoRL) , pages 989–1000, Atlanta, GA, USA, Mar. 2023.
[29] Fei Yang, Luis Herranz, Joost Van De Weijer, José A Iglesias Guitián,
Antonio M López, and Mikhail G Mozerov. Variable rate deep image
compression with modulated autoencoder. IEEE Signal Processing
Letters, 27:331–335, Jul. 2020.