When2com: Multi-Agent Perception via Communication Graph Grouping
Yen-Cheng Liu, Junjiao Tian∗, Nathaniel Glaser∗, Zsolt Kira
Georgia Institute of Technology
{ycliu, jtian73, nglaser3, zkira }@gatech.edu
Abstract
While signiﬁcant advances have been made for single-
agent perception, many applications require multiple sens-
ing agents and cross-agent communication due to beneﬁts
such as coverage and robustness. It is therefore critical
to develop frameworks which support multi-agent collab-
orative perception in a distributed and bandwidth-efﬁcient
manner. In this paper, we address the collaborative percep-
tion problem, where one agent is required to perform a per-
ception task and can communicate and share information
with other agents on the same task. Speciﬁcally, we propose
a communication framework by learning both to construct
communication groups and decide when to communicate.
We demonstrate the generalizability of our framework on
two different perception tasks and show that it signiﬁcantly
reduces communication bandwidth while maintaining supe-
rior performance.
1. Introduction
Remarkable progress has been achieved for single-agent
perception and recognition, where one or more sensor
modalities are used to perform object detection [30, 31, 22]
and segmentation [3, 12, 19], depth estimation [10, 38, 11],
and various other scene understanding tasks. However, in
many applications, such as robotics, there may be multiple
agents distributed in the environment, each of which has lo-
cal sensors. Such multi-agent systems are advantageous in
many cases, for example, to increase coverage across the
environment or to improve robustness to failures.
Thus, we tackle the problem ofmulti-agent collaborative
perception, an under-studied topic in the literature, where
multiple agents are able to exchange information to improve
overall accuracy towards perception tasks ( e.g., semantic
segmentation or object recognition). One major challenge
for multi-agent collaborative perception is the transmission
bandwidth, as high bandwidth results in network conges-
tion and latency in the agent network. We therefore inves-
∗equal contribution
Figure 1: Illustration of multi-agent collaborative per-
ception. We construct a multi-agent perception system to
improve the agent-wise perception accuracy and reduce the
transmission bandwidth. Each agent learns to construct
communication groups and decide when to communication.
tigate the scenario where information across all agents (and
hence sensors) is not available in a centralized manner, and
agents can only communicate through bandwidth-limited
channels. We also consider several challenging scenarios
where some sensor data may be uninformative or degraded.
Prior works on learning to communicate [34, 8] mainly
address decision-making tasks (rather than for improving
perception) under simple perceptual environments. In addi-
tion, these methods also do not consider bandwidth limita-
tions: They learn to communicate across a fully-connected
graph (i.e. all agents communicate with each other through
broadcasts). Such methods cannot scale as the number of
agents increases. Similarly, since all information is broad-
cast there is no decision of when to communicate condi-
tioned on the need. An agent does not need to consume
bandwidth when the local observation is sufﬁcient for the
prediction. When messages sent by other agents are de-
graded or irrelevant, communication thus could be detri-
mental to the perception task.
In this paper, we propose a learning-based communi-
1
arXiv:2006.00176v2  [cs.CV]  2 Jun 2020
cation model for collaborative perception. We speciﬁcally
view the problem as learning to construct the communica-
tion group (i.e. each agent decides what to transmit and
which agent(s) to communicate with) and to decide when
to communicate without explicit supervision for such deci-
sions during training. In contrast to broadcast-based meth-
ods (e.g. TarMac [6]) and inspired by the general attention
mechanisms, our method decouples the stages of commu-
nication and this allows for asymmetric message and key
sizes, reducing the amount of transmitted data.
Our method can be generalized to several downstream
vision tasks, including multi-agent collaborative semantic
segmentation (dense prediction) and multi-agent 3D shape
recognition (global prediction). Our model is able to be
trained in an end-to-end manner with only supervision from
downstream tasks (e.g. ground-truth masks for segmenta-
tion and class labels for image recognition) and without the
need for explicit ground-truth communication labels.
We demonstrate across different tasks that our method
can perform favorably against previous works on learning to
communicate while using less bandwidth. We provide ex-
tensive analyses, including trade-offs between message and
query sizes, the correlation between ground-truth key and
predicted message, and visualization of the learned com-
munication groups.
Our contributions are listed as follows:
• We address the under-explored area of collaborative per-
ception, which is at the intersection of perception, multi-
agent systems, and communication.
• We propose a uniﬁed framework that learns both how to
construct communication groups and when to communi-
cate. It does not require ground truth communication la-
bels during training, and it can dynamically reduce band-
width during inference.
• Our model can be generalized to several down-stream
tasks, and we show through rigorous experimentation
that it can perform better when compared with previous
works investigating learned communication.
• We provide a collaborative multi-agent semantic seg-
mentation dataset, AirSim-MAP, where each agent has
its own depth, pose, RBG images, and semantic segmen-
tation masks. This dataset allows researchers to further
investigate solutions to multi-agent perception.
2. Related works
Learning to communicate. Communication is an es-
sential component for effective collaboration, especially for
multi-agent decision-making and perception tasks. Early
works [35, 27] facilitated information ﬂow and collabora-
tion through pre-deﬁned communication protocols. Simi-
larly, auction-based methods [21, 29] for camera grouping
use several assumptions (e.g., static cameras) and heuristic
rules to decide the agents communication. However, such
Group 
Communication
Fullyconnected
Communication
agent Supporter
Requester
Figure 2: Fully connected versus group communication.
Fully connected communication results in a large amount of
bandwidth usage, growing on the order of O(N2), where N
represents the number of agents in a network. Group com-
munication is able to prune irrelevant connections and can
substantially reduce the overall network complexity.
rigid protocols do not evolve with dynamic environments
and do not easily generalize to complex environments.
Thus, in recent years, several multi-agent reinforcement
learning (MARL) works have explored learn-able interac-
tions between agents. For example, assuming full coopera-
tion across agents, each agent in CommNet [34] broadcasts
its hidden state to a shared communication channel so that
other agents can decide their actions based on this integrated
information. A similar scheme was proposed by Foerster et
al. [8], where agents instead communicate via learned, dis-
crete signals. To further leverage the interactions between
agents, Battaglia et al. [2] and Hoshen [15] integrate ker-
nel functions into CommNet. Additionally, several works
have addressed communication through recurrent neural
networks (RNN). For example, DIAL [7] uses an RNN to
derive the individual Q-value of each agent based on its ob-
servation and the messages from other agents. BiCNet [28]
connects all agents with a Bi-directional LSTM to inte-
grate agent-speciﬁc information, and ATOC [18] addition-
ally applies an attention unit to determine what to broad-
cast to the shared channel. Although substantial progress
has been made by several MARL works, most experimen-
tal tasks are built on simplistic 2D-grid environments where
each agent observes low-dimensional 2D images. As men-
tioned in Jain et al. [16], studying agents’ interactions in
simplistic environments does not permit study of the inter-
play between perception and communication.
Recent works have proposed to construct communi-
cation groups based on pre-deﬁned rules [18, 17] or a
uniﬁed communication network [33, 34, 15, 28, 33, 6].
With these techniques, bandwidth usage during communi-
cation increases as the number of agents scales up. While
Who2com [23] uses a handshake communication to reduce
the bandwidth usage, this model assumes all agents always
(a) (b)
Figure 3: Our (a) Multiple-Request Multiple-Support Model and its (b) Handshake-Communication (H-Com) Module.
need to communicate with one of the other agents. This
results in the waste of bandwidth consumption and cannot
prevent the issue of detrimental messages. In contrast, our
proposed framework alleviates these problems by learning
to decide when to communicate and to create communica-
tion groups.
Attention mechanisms. Attention mechanisms have
been widely used in recent learning-based models. In a
nutshell, the attention mechanism can be viewed as a soft
fusion scheme to weight different values based on a sim-
ilarity between query and keys. A few noticeable and
widely used attention mechanisms are additive [1], scale
dot-product [36], and general [25]. One key ﬁnding of our
work is that the general mechanism allows for asymmet-
ric queries and keys, which makes it especially suitable for
tasks with bandwidth considerations: An agent’s transmit-
ted query message can be smaller than its retained key, and
hence its overall bandwidth consumption can be reduced.
3. Method
The goal of our proposed model is to address the multi-
agent collaborative perception problem, where an agent is
able to improve its perception by receiving information
from other agents. In this paper, we are speciﬁcally inter-
ested in learning to construct communication groups and
learning when to communicate in a bandwidth-limited way.
3.1. Problem Deﬁnition and Notation
We assume an environment consisting N agents with
their own observations X ={xn}n=1,...,N . Among those
agents, some of them are degraded ˜X ={ ˜xl}l=1,..,L, and
the set of degraded agents is a subset of all agents ˜X⊂
X. Each agent outputs the prediction of perception task
˜Y ={˜yn}n=1,...,N with the proposed communication mech-
anism. Note that each agent is a requester and supporter
simultaneously. However, which agents are degraded isun-
known in our problem setting.
3.2. Communication Groups Construction
As demonstrated in Figure 2, previous works on learn-
ing to communicate applied fully-connected communica-
tion for information exchange across agents. This frame-
work results in a large amount of bandwidth usage and is
difﬁcult to scale up when the number of agents increases.
To reduce the network complexity and bandwidth us-
age, inspired by communication network protocol [20], we
propose a two-step group construction procedure: we ﬁrst
apply the handshake communication [23] to determine the
weights of connections, and we further prune the less im-
portant connections with an activation function.
To start constructing a communication group, we apply
a three-stage handshake communication mechanism [23],
which consists of three stages: request, match, and select.
Agent i ﬁrst compresses its local observationsxi into a com-
pact query vectorµi and a key vectorκi:
µi = Gq(xi; θq)∈ RQ, κi = Gk(xi; θk)∈ RK, (1)
where Gq is a query generator parameterized by θq and Gk
is a key generator parameterized by θk. We further broad-
cast the query to all of other agents, and note that this
only causes limited amount of bandwidth transmission as
all queries are compact compared to the high-resolution im-
ages. To decide who to communicate with, we compute a
matching scoremi, j between an agent i (as a requester) and
an agent j (as a supporter),
mi, j = Φ(µi,κ j), ∀i̸= j, (2)
where Φ(·,·) is a learned similarity function which mea-
sures the correlation between two vectors. The matching
scoremi, j implies correlation between agent i and j, and
intuitively this value also represents the amount of informa-
tion the supporting agent j can provide for the requesting
agent i.
However, the above method does not learn “when” to
communicate, and it results in wasted bandwidth when an
agent has sufﬁcient information and the communication is
not necessary. An ideal communication mechanism is to
switch on transmission when the agent requires information
from other agents to improve its perception ability, while it
should also switch off the transmission when it has sufﬁ-
cient information for its own perception task. Toward this
end, inspired by self-attention mechanism [4], we use the
correlation between the key and query from the same agent
to determine if the agent potentially requires more informa-
tion and thus learn when to communicate,
mi,i = Φ(µi,κi). (3)
Note that ˆmi,i≈ 1 represents that the agent has sufﬁcient in-
formation and does not need communication for perception
tasks.
In order to minimize bandwidth usage during transmis-
sion, we further propose an asymmetric message method,
which compresses the query into an extremely low-
dimensional vector (which is transmitted) while keeping
a larger size for the key vector (which is not transmit-
ted). Once extremely compact queries are passed to receiver
agents, we use a scaled general attention [25, 36] to com-
pute the correlation between agent i and agent j:
Φ(µi,κ j) =µT
iWgκ j√
K , (4)
where Wg∈ RQ×K is a learnable parameter to match the size
of query and key, and Q and K are dimension of query and
key respectively.
Based on the above self-attention and cross-attention
mechanism across all queries and keys, we thus derive the
matching matrixM:
M =σ(


m1,1 m1,2 ··· m1,N
m2,1 m2,2 ··· m2,N
... ... ... ...
mN,1 mN,2 ··· mN,N

)∈ RN×N , (5)
whereσ(·) is a row-wise softmax function.
To construct the communication groups, we prune the
less connections with an activation function:
¯M = Γ(M; δ ), (6)
where Γ(·; δ ) is an element-wise function, which zeros out
the elements smaller than δ. (We set δ = 1
N in our experi-
Figure 4: An example of our constructed communication
groups and the corresponding adjacency matrix. Blue
arrow indicates the intra-agent transmission without band-
width consumption, and red arrow represents the inter-agent
transmission with bandwidth consumption.
ment.)
The derived matrix ¯M can be regarded as the adjacency
matrix of a directed graph, where the entries of the ma-
trix indicate when to communicate and non-entries repre-
sent who to communicate with as demonstrated in Figure 4.
Each row of the matrix represents how a receiver agent col-
lects information from different supporting agents, and each
column of the matrix is how one supporter sends its own in-
formation to different requesting agents.
As shown in Figure 3, once a requesting agent collects
the information from its linked supporting agents, the re-
questing agent i integrates its local observation and the com-
pressed visual feature maps from supporters based on the
matching scores:
ˆyi = D([fi;f in f
i ]; θd), f int
i =
N
∑
j=1
¯mi, j̸=0
¯mi, jf j, (7)
whereD is an perception task decoder parameterized byθd,
¯mi, j is the element located ini-th row and j-th of the matrix
¯M,fi =E(xi; θe) is an feature map of agent i encoded by
an image encoderE, [·;·] is concatenation operation along
channel dimension. It is worth noting that our perception
task decoder is not limited for speciﬁc vision tasks, and we
demonstrate our communication framework can be general-
ized to different visual tasks in our experiments.
3.3. Learning of Communication
Our learning strategy follows the centralized training and
decentralized inference procedure [24]. Precisely, all agents
are able to access all local observations of agents in the
training stage, while each agent can only observe its own
local observation in the inference stage. Our goal is to learn
a bandwidth-efﬁcient communication mechanism, so that
in the inference stage, our proposed model is able to per-
form multi-agent collaborative perceptions in a bandwidth-
limited and distributed manner.
We follow the aforementioned handshake communica-
tion to compute the matching matrix M, and we weight the
agents’ feature maps based on the matching matrix M and
further integrate them as:
f all
i =
N
∑
j=1
˜mi, jf j, (8)
where ˜m the element located in i-th row and j-th of the
matrixM. Note that in the above equation mi, jf j repre-
sents who to communicate with, andmi,ifi indicates when
to communicate. Then, a client agent i combines its own
feature map fi and the integrated feature f all
i to compute
the prediction for downstream visual tasks,
˜yi = D([fi;f all
i ]; θd), (9)
In order to train our model, we use the label for down-
stream tasks (e.g., segmentation masks) as supervision, we
compute the loss as:
L = H(y j, ˜y j), (10)
where H(·,·) can be the objective function for any down-
stream visual tasks ( e.g. pixel-wise cross-entropy for seg-
mentation tasks or cross-entropy for recognition tasks). We
later update the weights of our model Θ = (θk, θq, θe, θd)
using the above loss in an end-to-end manner.
4. Experiment
We evaluate the performance of our proposed frame-
work on two distinct perception tasks: collaborative seman-
tic segmentation and multi-view 3D shape recognition.
4.1. Experimental Cases and Datasets
4.1.1 Collaborative Semantic Segmentation
Our ﬁrst task is collaborative 2D semantic segmentation of
a 3D scene. Given observations (an RGB image, aligned
dense depth map, and pose) from several mobile agents, the
objective of this task is to produce an accurate 2D semantic
segmentation mask for each agent.
Since current semantic segmentation datasets [9, 5, 26,
14] only provide RGB images and labels captured from
the perspective of single agent, we thus use AirSim sim-
ulator [32] to collect our AirSim-MAP (Multi-Agent Per-
ception) dataset. For this dataset, we ﬂy a swarm of ﬁve
to six drones with different yaw rates through a series of
waypoints in the AirSim “CityEnviron” environment. We
record pose, depth maps, and RGB images for each agent.
Note that we also provide semantic segmentation masks for
all drones.
We consider three experimental cases within this task.
We refer to the agent attempting segmentation as the re-
questing agent, and all other agents as the supporting
agents. Details for each case are listed as follows:
Single-Request Multiple-Support (SRMS) This ﬁrst case
examines the effectiveness of communication for a single
requesting agent under the assumption that if an agent is
degraded, then its original, non-degraded information will
be present in one of the supporting agents. We include a to-
tal of ﬁve agents, of which only one is selected for possible
degradation. We add noise to a random selection of 50% of
this agent’s frames, and we randomly replace one of the re-
maining agents with the non-degraded frame of the original
agent. Note that only the segmentation mask of the original
agent is used as supervision.
Multiple-Request Multiple-Support (MRMS) The sec-
ond case considers a more challenging problem, where mul-
tiple agents can suffer degradation. Instead of requiring a
single segmentation output, this case requires segmentation
outputs for all agents, degraded and non-degraded. We fol-
low the setup of the previous case, and we ensure that each
of the several degraded requesting agents has a correspond-
ing non-degraded image among its supporting agents.
Multiple-Request Multiple-Partial-Support (MRMPS)
The third case removes the assumption that there exists a
clean version of the degraded view among the supporting
agents. Instead, the degraded agent must select the most
informative view(s) from the other agents, and these views
might have a variable degree of relevance. Speciﬁcally, as
the drone group moves through the environment, the im-
ages from each drone periodically and partially overlap with
those of other drones. Intuitively, the segmentation output
of the requesting drone is only aided from the supporting
drones that have overlapping views.
4.1.2 Multi-Agent 3D Shape Classiﬁcation
In addition to the semantic segmentation task, we also con-
sider a multi-agent 3D shape classiﬁcation task. For this
experimental case, we construct a multi-agent variant of the
ModelNet 40 dataset [37]. The original dataset contains 40
common object categories from ModelNet with 100 unique
CAD models per category and 12 different views of each
model. However, our variant adds a communication group
structure to the original dataset. Speciﬁcally, we sample
three sets of class-based image triplets. Each triplet corre-
sponds to a randomly selected 3D object model and each
triplet contains three randomly selected 2D views of its cor-
responding object model. To make this problem setting
more challenging, we further degrade one image from each
triplet. The objective of this task is to predict the corre-
sponding object class for each agent by leveraging the in-
formation from all agents. Figure 6 shows an example of
the dataset in one trial with 9 agents. This modiﬁed task is
essentially a distributed version of the multi-view classiﬁ-
Table 1: Experimental results on Multiple-Request Multiple-Support and Multiple-Request Multiple-Partial-Support.
Note that we evaluate these models with the metric of mean intersection of union (mIoU) and use MBytes per frame (Mbpf)
and the averaged number of links per agent for measuring bandwidth.
Multiple-Request Multiple-Support Multiple-Request Multiple-Partial-Support
Models Bandwidth (Mbpf / # of links) Noisy Normal Avg. Bandwidth (Mbpf / # of links) Noisy Normal Avg.
AllNorm - 57.85 57.74 57.80 - 47.9 48.37 48.14
Fully-Connect.
CatAll 2.5 / 5 29.07 51.83 40.45 2.0 / 4 26.86 45.27 36.07
AuxAttend 2.5 / 5 33.69 56.27 44.98 2.0 / 4 26.97 51.03 39.00
CommNet [34] 2.5 / 5 23.68 52.67 38.18 2.0 / 4 26.56 49.07 37.82
TarMac [6] 2.5 / 5 51.09 56.74 53.92 2.0 / 4 29.78 51.39 40.59
Distri.
RandCom 0.5 / 1 21.22 52.74 36.98 0.5 / 1 24.13 45.19 34.66
Who2com [23] 0.5 / 1 31.96 56.11 44.04 0.5 / 1 26.97 50.71 38.84
Ours 0.385 / 0.77 56.52 58.04 57.28 0.55 / 1.08 30.38 51.26 40.82
OccDeg - 30.06 56.31 43.19 - 25.2 46.74 35.97
30.86
38.08
25.12
37.67
52.1
44.1
46.09 45.06
42.68
54.24
53.08
25.94
CatAll
(FC)
AuxAttend
(FC)
RandCom
(Distr.)
Who2com
(Distri.)
Ours
(Distr.)
mIoU 
Noisy samples Normal samples AllNorm OccDeg
Figure 5: Experimental results of Single-Request
Multiple-Support.
cation task [37].
4.2. Baselines and Evaluation Metrics
Here we consider several fully-connected (FC) and dis-
tributed communication (DistCom) models as our base-
lines. FC models fuse all of the agents’ observations (either
weighted or unweighted) whereas DistCom models only
fuse a subset of those observations.
• CatAll (FC) is a naive FC model baseline which con-
catenates the encoded image features of all agents prior
to subsequent network stages.
• Auxiliary-View Attention (AuxAttend;FC) uses an atten-
tion mechanism to weight auxiliary views from the sup-
porting agents.
• RandCom (DistCom) is a naive distributed baseline
which randomly selects one of other agents as a support-
ing agent.
• Who2com [23] (DistCom) excludes self-attention mech-
anism such that it always communicates with one of the
supporting agents.
• OccDeg and AllNorm are baselines that employ no com-
munication, i.e. each agent (view) independently com-
putes the output for itself. For OccDeg the data is de-
graded similarly as before, while in AllNorm we use
clean images for all views. These two serve as an up-
per and lower reference for comparison.
We also consider communication modules of Comm-
Net [34], VAIN [15], and TarMac [6] as our baseline meth-
ods for all multiple-outputs tasks. For a fair comparison,
we use ResNet18 [13] as the feature backbone for our and
all mentioned baseline models. For the 3D recognition task,
we also add MVCNN [37] as a baseline.
We evaluate the performance of all the models with mean
IoU on the segmentation task and prediction accuracy on
the 3D shape recognition task. In addition, we report Band-
width of all FC and DistCom models in Megabyte per frame
(MBpf). To obtain MBpf, We add the size of the feature
vectors which need to be transmitted to the requesters and
size of keys broadcast to all supporters and multiply by the
number of bytes required for storage.
4.3. Quantitative results
Single-Request Multiple-Support (SRMS) The goal of
this case is to examine if our model is able to learn when
to communicate and learn who to communicate with for a
single requesting agent. Figure 5 shows the performance of
our proposed model and several baseline models. Although
most fully-connected methods can improve the prediction
mIoU compared with NoCom, they need to propagate all
information in a fully-connected manner and thus require
high bandwidth consumption. In contrast, our model re-
ports higher prediction accuracy yet smaller bandwidth us-
age (Who2com [23]: 2 MBpf; ours: 0 .98 MBpf). Another
observation is that our model is able to further improve
compared with Who2com [23]. This demonstrates the ben-
eﬁt of learning when to communicate, which reduces the
waste of bandwidth and prevent detrimental message when
the requesting agent has sufﬁcient information and commu-
nication is not required.
Table 2: Experimental results on Multi-agent 3D Shape recognition. We report the accuracy of the degraded split, and all
methods perform similar results for the normal split (≈ 83%).
OccDeg AllNorm RandCom CatAll MVCNN [37] CommNet [34] V AIN [15] TarMac [6] Ours
Degraded Split Accuracy (%) 55.02 83.66 54.28 73.82 31.80 71.52 75.09 78.73 80.72
Bandwidth (links/MBpf) - - 0.11 / 0.89 1 / 8 1 / 8 1 / 8 1 / 8 1 / 8 0.176/ 1.32
Supporting
Requesting
Dresser Bo x Bo x Person Person Person Wardro be Wardro beNoCom Bookshelf
Bo x Bo x Bo x Person Person Person Wardro be Wardro be Wardro beGT
Dresser Bo x Bo x Person Person Person Wardro be Wardro beRandCo m Bo wl
Bo x Bo x Bo x Person Person Person Wardro be Wardro beOurs Wardro be
0.999 0.998
0.998
0.6840.2260.207
0.695
0.689 0.308
0.549
0.620 0.672
0.445
0.2750.281
Figure 6: Bipartite communication graph between supporting and requesting agents. During the query phase, each
requesting agent sends a low-dimensional query vector to all other agents (including itself) to establish communication.
Then during the transmission phase, supporting agents transmit their high-dimensional feature representations. We visualize
the ﬂow of data during the transmission phase, where blue and red arrows refer to internal and external communication,
respectively. More prominent colors and larger numerical values indicate stronger feature weightings, whereas missing
arrows represent the pruned links in the communication graph. Note that these images are ordered for visualization purposes;
the actual dataset is unordered, and each agent observes a random class with a random chance of degradation.
Multiple-Request Multiple-Support (MRMS) In this
case, we further address a more challenging problem, where
multiple agents suffer degradation. Each agent should (1)
identify when it needs to communicate, (2) decide who to
communicate with when it needs to, and (3) avoid the selec-
tion of noisy views from the supporting agents. We list the
experiment results in the Table 1. It can be seen that, when
the requesting agents cannot prevent the selection of noisy
supporting agents, both CatAll and RandCom perform even
worse than NoCom. This veriﬁes our intuition that the infor-
mation from the supporting agents is not always beneﬁcial
for the requesting agents, and selection of incorrect infor-
mation may even hinder the prediction of the requesters.
With the use of attention mechanisms for weighting the
feature maps from the supporting agents, both AuxAttend
and Who2com [23] are able to prevent incorrect views from
deteriorating performance and thus improve with respect to
NoCom, CatAll, and RandCom. However, without learning
when to communicate, those models are forced to always
request information from at least one supporting agent re-
sulting in both poorer performance and unnecessary band-
width usage.
In addition to the above baseline methods, we also con-
sider CommNet [34] and TarMac [6]. Even though Comm-
Net integrates the information from other agents by using an
average pooling mechanism, it does not improve the predic-
tion of either degraded or non-degraded requesting agents
because it indiscriminately incorporates all views.
On the other hand, TarMac [6] is able to provide bet-
ter results compared with the baseline models. However,
TarMac uses one-way communication and results in large
bandwidth usage which presents difﬁculty in the real sce-
nario. On the contrary, our model is not only able to out-
perform it on both degraded and non-degraded samples,
but also consumes less bandwidth by using our asymmet-
ric query mechanism and pruning redundant connections
within the network with the activation function.
Multiple-Request Multiple-Partial-Support (MRMPS)
In this case, there is less chance to have completely over-
lapped observations between any two agents. This presents
an inherent difﬁculty in the perception task because only
incomplete information is available for the prediction. As
shown in the right part of Table 1, the performance improve-
ment margin of all FC and DistCom models is smaller with
respect to NoCom, in comparison to more signiﬁcant im-
provement observed in the previous scenario.
Nonetheless, we observe that all methods exhibit a sim-
ilar trend as the previous scenario. Our model is still able
to maintain a similar prediction accuracy as fully-connected
models, while we only use one-fourth bandwidth for com-
60
70
80
90
80
90
100
1 4 16 64
Recognition Acc.(%)
GroupingAcc.(%)
Query Size
Grouping Acc.
Recongition Acc.
Figure 7: Ablation study on varying query size.
munication across agents. This demonstrates the superior
bandwidth-efﬁciency of our model.
Multi-agent 3D shape Recognition In order to demon-
strate the generalization of our model, here we apply our
model to the task of multi-agent 3D shape classiﬁcation.
Table 2 provides the quantitative evaluation on this task
using our proposed model and other baselines, including
VAIN [15], CommNet [34], and TarMac [6]. Our model
is able to perform competitively compared with TarMac [6]
with only approximately one-eighth bandwidth usage. We
also provide qualitative results in Figure 6 to demonstrate
the effectiveness of our model, which allows agents to com-
municate with the correct and informative agents.
4.4. Analyses
To investigate the source of our model’s improvement
over the baselines, we computed two selection accuracy
metrics on the SRMS dataset, WhenToCom and Grouping.
WhenToCom accuracy measures how often communication
between a requester and a supporter(s) is established and
when it is needed; and Grouping measures how often the
correct group is created when there is indeed communica-
tion. We also comment on the trade-off between bandwidth
and performance of communication by conducting a con-
trolled experiment on the size of query and key on the 3D
recognition dataset.
Effect of handshake communication As demonstrated
in Figure 8, we conduct an ablation study on the pro-
posed handshake communication. In the Ours (w/o H-Com)
model, we remove the handshake communication module,
so that each agent only uses its local observations to com-
pute both (1) the communication score and (2) its commu-
nication group.
We additionally provide the result of RandCom. We ob-
served that our model with the proposed handshake commu-
nication offers a signiﬁcant improvement over both Rand-
Com and our model without handshake communication.
This ﬁnding demonstrates the necessity of communication
for deciding when to communicate and who to communi-
cate with. That is, an agent without communication cannot
decide what information it needs and which supporter has
the relevant information to help better perform on percep-
tion tasks.
Figure 6 visualizes three examples from the 3D shape
48.46%
19.32%
46.73%
33.84%
99.80% 98.27%
10%
40%
70%
100%
WhenToCom Grouping
Accuracy
Effect of Handshake Communication
RandComOurs (w/o H-Com)Ours (w/ H-Com)
Figure 8: Effect of our proposed H-Com. Handshake
communication signiﬁcantly improves the communication
accuracy.
recognition task. Each agent clearly knows when communi-
cation is needed based on information provided by the sup-
porters and its own observation. For example, in the ﬁrst
three box examples, the degraded agent on the left knows
to select an informative view from the other agents; the
non-degraded agent in the middle decides to select a more
informative view even though it possesses sufﬁcient infor-
mation; and the third agent decides that communication is
not needed because it has the most informative view among
all. It is worth mentioning that all 9 views are provided
to every agent and the agent needs to identify informative
views and detrimental views based on the matching scores.
Query and key size We further analyze the effect of query
and key size on Grouping accuracy and classiﬁcation accu-
racy on the 3D shape classiﬁcation task. We vary the query
size from 1 to 128 with a ﬁxed key size of 16 as shown in
Figure 7. We observe that both selection and classiﬁcation
accuracy improve as the message size increases. Our model
can perform favorably with a message size of 4. The same
trend is also observed for key sizes. Most noticeably, we
ﬁnd that there exists asymmetry in query-key size. While
the selection accuracy saturates at 16-dimensional query,
selection accuracy consistently improves with increasing
key size until 1024-dimensional key. Our model exploits
this asymmetry to save bandwidth in communication while
maintaining high performance.
5. Conclusion
In this paper, we proposed a general bandwidth-efﬁcient
communication framework for collaborative perception.
Our framework learns both how to construct communica-
tion groups and when to communicate. This framework
can be generalized to several down-stream tasks including
(but not limited to) multi-agent semantic segmentation and
multi-agent 3D shape recognition. We demonstrated supe-
rior performance with lower bandwidth requirements across
all compared methods.
6. Acknowledgement
This work was supported by ONR grant N00014-18-1-
2829.
References
[1] Dzmitry Bahdanau, KyungHyun Cho, and Yoshua Bengio.
Neural machine translation by jointly learning to align and
translation. In Proceedings of the International Conference
on Learning Representations (ICLR), 2015. 3
[2] Peter Battaglia, Razvan Pascanu, Matthew Lai,
Danilo Jimenez Rezende, et al. Interaction networks
for learning about objects, relations and physics. In Ad-
vances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS) ,
2016. 2
[3] Liang-Chieh Chen, Yukun Zhu, George Papandreou, Florian
Schroff, and Hartwig Adam. Encoder-decoder with atrous
separable convolution for semantic image segmentation. In
Proceedings of the European Conference on Computer Vi-
sion (ECCV), pages 801–818, 2018. 1
[4] Jianpeng Cheng, Li Dong, and Mirella Lapata. Long short-
term memory-networks for machine reading. In Confer-
ence on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing
(EMNLP), 2016. 4
[5] Marius Cordts, Mohamed Omran, Sebastian Ramos, Timo
Rehfeld, Markus Enzweiler, Rodrigo Benenson, Uwe
Franke, Stefan Roth, and Bernt Schiele. The cityscapes
dataset for semantic urban scene understanding. In Proceed-
ings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition (CVPR), pages 3213–3223, 2016. 5
[6] Abhishek Das, Th ´eophile Gervet, Joshua Romoff, Dhruv Ba-
tra, Devi Parikh, Michael Rabbat, and Joelle Pineau. Tar-
mac: Targeted multi-agent communication. In Proceed-
ings of the International Conference on Machine Learning
(ICML), 2019. 2, 6, 7, 8
[7] Jakob Foerster, Ioannis Alexandros Assael, Nando de Fre-
itas, and Shimon Whiteson. Learning to communicate with
deep multi-agent reinforcement learning. In Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS), 2016. 2
[8] Jakob Foerster, Yannis M Assael, Nando de Freitas, and Shi-
mon Whiteson. Learning to communicate with deep multi-
agent reinforcement learning. In Advances in Neural Infor-
mation Processing Systems (NIPS), 2016. 1, 2
[9] Andreas Geiger, Philip Lenz, Christoph Stiller, and Raquel
Urtasun. Vision meets robotics: The kitti dataset. The Inter-
national Journal of Robotics Research , 32(11):1231–1237,
2013. 5
[10] Cl ´ement Godard, Oisin Mac Aodha, and Gabriel J Bros-
tow. Unsupervised monocular depth estimation with left-
right consistency. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , pages 270–279,
2017. 1
[11] Cl ´ement Godard, Oisin Mac Aodha, Michael Firman, and
Gabriel J Brostow. Digging into self-supervised monocular
depth estimation. In Proceedings of the IEEE International
Conference on Computer Vision, pages 3828–3838, 2019. 1
[12] Kaiming He, Georgia Gkioxari, Piotr Dollar, and Ross Gir-
shick. Mask r-cnn. In Proceedings of the IEEE International
Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV), Oct 2017. 1
[13] Kaiming He, Xiangyu Zhang, Shaoqing Ren, and Jian Sun.
Deep residual learning for image recognition. In Proceed-
ings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition (CVPR), 2016. 6
[14] Simon Hecker, Dengxin Dai, and Luc Van Gool. End-to-end
learning of driving models with surround-view cameras and
route planners. In Proceedings of the European Conference
on Computer Vision (ECCV), pages 435–453, 2018. 5
[15] Yedid Hoshen. Vain: Attentional multi-agent predictive
modeling. In Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems (NIPS), 2017. 2, 6, 7, 8
[16] Unnat Jain, Luca Weihs, Eric Kolve, Mohammad Rastegari,
Svetlana Lazebnik, Ali Farhadi, Alexander G Schwing, and
Aniruddha Kembhavi. Two body problem: Collaborative vi-
sual task completion. InProceedings of the IEEE Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2019.
2
[17] Jiechuan Jiang, Chen Dun, and Zongqing Lu. Graph convo-
lutional reinforcement learning for multi-agent cooperation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.09202, 2018. 2
[18] Jiechuan Jiang and Zongqing Lu. Learning attentional com-
munication for multi-agent cooperation. InAdvances in Neu-
ral Information Processing Systems (NIPS), 2018. 2
[19] Alexander Kirillov, Kaiming He, Ross Girshick, Carsten
Rother, and Piotr Doll ´ar. Panoptic segmentation. In Pro-
ceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pages 9404–9413, 2019. 1
[20] James F Kurose. Computer networking: A top-down ap-
proach featuring the internet, 3/E. Pearson Education India,
2005. 3
[21] Yiming Li, Bir Bhanu, and Wei Lin. Auction protocol for
camera active control. In Proceedings of the IEEE Interna-
tional Conference on Image Processing (ICIP), pages 4325–
4328. IEEE, 2010. 2
[22] Tsung-Yi Lin, Priya Goyal, Ross Girshick, Kaiming He, and
Piotr Dollar. Focal loss for dense object detection. In Pro-
ceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Computer
Vision (ICCV), Oct 2017. 1
[23] Yen-Cheng Liu, Junjiao Tian, Chih-Yao Ma, Nathaniel
Glaser, Chia-Wen Kuo, and Zsolt Kira. Who2com: Col-
laborative perception via learnable handshake communica-
tion. In Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference
on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 2020. 2, 3, 6, 7
[24] Ryan Lowe, Yi Wu, Aviv Tamar, Jean Harb, OpenAI Pieter
Abbeel, and Igor Mordatch. Multi-agent actor-critic for
mixed cooperative-competitive environments. In Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS), 2017. 4
[25] Minh-Thang Luong, Hieu Pham, and Christopher D Man-
ning. Effective approaches to attention-based neural machine
translation. In Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing (EMNLP), 2015. 3, 4
[26] Will Maddern, Geoff Pascoe, Chris Linegar, and Paul New-
man. 1 Year, 1000km: The Oxford RobotCar Dataset. The
International Journal of Robotics Research (IJRR), 36(1):3–
15, 2017. 5
[27] Francisco S Melo, Matthijs TJ Spaan, and Stefan J Witwicki.
Querypomdp: Pomdp-based communication in multiagent
systems. In Proceedings of the 9th European conference on
Multi-Agent Systems, 2011. 2
[28] Peng Peng, Ying Wen, Yaodong Yang, Quan Yuan,
Zhenkun Tang, Haitao Long, and Jun Wang. Multiagent
bidirectionally-coordinated nets: Emergence of human-level
coordination in learning to play starcraft combat games.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1703.10069, 2017. 2
[29] Faisal Qureshi and Demetri Terzopoulos. Smart cam-
era networks in virtual reality. Proceedings of the IEEE ,
96(10):1640–1656, 2008. 2
[30] Joseph Redmon, Santosh Divvala, Ross Girshick, and Ali
Farhadi. You only look once: Uniﬁed, real-time object de-
tection. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Com-
puter Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) , pages 779–
788, 2016. 1
[31] Joseph Redmon and Ali Farhadi. Yolo9000: Better, faster,
stronger. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Com-
puter Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), July 2017. 1
[32] Shital Shah, Debadeepta Dey, Chris Lovett, and Ashish
Kapoor. Airsim: High-ﬁdelity visual and physical simula-
tion for autonomous vehicles. In Field and Service Robotics,
2017. 5
[33] Amanpreet Singh, Tushar Jain, and Sainbayar Sukhbaatar.
Learning when to communicate at scale in multia-
gent cooperative and competitive tasks. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1812.09755, 2018. 2
[34] Sainbayar Sukhbaatar, Rob Fergus, et al. Learning multia-
gent communication with backpropagation. In Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS), 2016. 1, 2,
6, 7, 8
[35] Ming Tan. Multi-agent reinforcement learning: Independent
vs. cooperative agents. In Proceedings of the International
Conference on Machine Learning (ICML), 1993. 2
[36] Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszko-
reit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez, Łukasz Kaiser, and Illia
Polosukhin. Attention is all you need. In Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems (NIPS), 2017. 3, 4
[37] Zhirong Wu, Shuran Song, Aditya Khosla, Fisher Yu, Lin-
guang Zhang, Xiaoou Tang, and Jianxiong Xiao. 3d
shapenets: A deep representation for volumetric shapes. In
Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) , pages 1912–1920, 2015.
5, 6, 7
[38] Tinghui Zhou, Matthew Brown, Noah Snavely, and David G.
Lowe. Unsupervised learning of depth and ego-motion from
video. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), July 2017. 1