Where2comm: Communication-Efﬁcient
Collaborative Perception via Spatial Conﬁdence Maps
Yue Hu Shaoheng Fang Zixing Lei
Cooperative Medianet Innovation Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong University
{18671129361, shfang, chezacarss}@sjtu.edu.cn
Yiqi Zhong
University of Southern California
yiqizhon@usc.edu
Siheng Chen∗
Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai AI Laboratory
sihengc@sjtu.edu.cn
Abstract
Multi-agent collaborative perception could signiﬁcantly upgrade the perception
performance by enabling agents to share complementary information with each
other through communication. It inevitably results in a fundamental trade-off
between perception performance and communication bandwidth. To tackle this
bottleneck issue, we propose a spatial conﬁdence map, which reﬂects the spatial
heterogeneity of perceptual information. It empowers agents to only share spatially
sparse, yet perceptually critical information, contributing to where to commu-
nicate. Based on this novel spatial conﬁdence map, we propose Where2comm,
a communication-efﬁcient collaborative perception framework. Where2comm
has two distinct advantages: i) it considers pragmatic compression and uses
less communication to achieve higher perception performance by focusing on
perceptually critical areas; and ii) it can handle varying communication band-
width by dynamically adjusting spatial areas involved in communication. To
evaluate Where2comm, we consider 3D object detection in both real-world and
simulation scenarios with two modalities (camera/LiDAR) and two agent types
(cars/drones) on four datasets: OPV2V , V2X-Sim, DAIR-V2X, and our origi-
nal CoPerception-UA Vs.Where2comm consistently outperforms previous meth-
ods; for example, it achieves more than 100, 000× lower communication volume
and still outperforms DiscoNet and V2X-ViT on OPV2V . Our code is available
at https://github.com/MediaBrain-SJTU/where2comm.
1 Introduction
Collaborative perception enables multiple agents to share complementary perceptual information
with each other, promoting more holistic perception. It provides a new direction to fundamentally
overcome a number of inevitable limitations of single-agent perception, such as occlusion and long-
range issues. Related methods and systems are desperately needed in a broad range of real-world
applications, such as vehicle-to-everything-communication-aided autonomous driving [1–3], multi-
robot warehouse automation system [4, 5] and multi-UA Vs (unmanned aerial vehicles) for search
and rescue [6–8]. To realize collaborative perception, recent works have contributed high-quality
datasets [9–11] and effective collaboration methods [12, 13, 2, 14–19].
In this emerging ﬁeld, the current biggest challenge is how to optimize the trade-off between
perception performance and communication bandwidth. Communication systems in real-world
scenarios are always constrained that they can hardly afford huge communication consumption in
real-time, such as passing complete raw observations or a large volume of features. Therefore,
∗Corresponding author
36th Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2022).
arXiv:2209.12836v1  [cs.CV]  26 Sep 2022
Figure 1: Collaborative perception could contribute to safety-critical scenarios, where the white car
and the red car may collide due to occlusion. This collision could be avoided when the blue car can
share a message about the red car’s position. Such a message is spatially sparse, yet perceptually
critical. Considering the precious communication bandwidth, each agent needs to speak to the point!
we cannot solely promote the perception performance without evaluating the expense of every bit
of precious communication bandwidth. To achieve a better performance and bandwidth trade-off,
previous works put forth solutions from several perspectives. For example, When2com [12] considers
a handshake mechanism which selects the most relevant collaborators; V2VNet [1] considers end-
to-end-learning-based source coding; and DiscoNet [2] uses 1D convolution to compress message.
However, all previous works make a plausible assumption: once two agents collaborate, they are
obligated to share perceptual information of all spatial areasequally. This unnecessary assumption can
hugely waste the bandwidth as a large proportion of spatial areas may contain irrelevant information
for perception task. Figure 1 illustrates such a spatial heterogeneity of perceptual information.
To ﬁll this gap, we consider a novel spatial-conﬁdence-aware communication strategy. The core idea
is to enable a spatial conﬁdence map for each agent, where each element reﬂects the perceptually
critical level of a corresponding spatial area. Based on this map, agents decide which spatial area
(where) to communicate about. That is, each agent offers spatially sparse, yet critical features
to support other agents, and meanwhile requests complementary information from others through
multi-round communication to perform efﬁcient and mutually beneﬁcial collaboration.
Following this strategy, we proposeWhere2comm, a novel communication-efﬁcient multi-agent collab-
orative perception framework with the guidance of spatial conﬁdence maps; see Fig. 2. Where2comm
includes three key modules: i) a spatial conﬁdence generator, which produces a spatial conﬁdence
map to indicate perceptually critical areas; ii) a spatial conﬁdence-aware communication module,
which leverages the spatial conﬁdence map to decide where to communicate via novel message
packing, and who to communicate via novel communication graph construction; and iii) a spatial
conﬁdence-aware message fusion module, which uses novel conﬁdence-aware multi-head attention
to fuse all messages received from other agents, upgrading the feature map for each agent.
Where2comm has two distinct advantages. First, it promotes pragmatic compression at the feature level
and uses less communication to achieve higher perception performance by focusing on perceptually
critical areas. Second, it adapts to various communication bandwidths and communication rounds,
while previous models only handle one predeﬁned communication bandwidth and a ﬁxed number
of communication rounds. To evaluate Where2comm, we consider the collaborative 3D object
detection task on four datasets: DAIR-V2X [ 11], V2X-Sim [ 9], OPV2V [ 10] and our original
dataset CoPerception-UA Vs. Our experiments cover both real-world and simulation scenarios, two
types of agents (cars and drones) and sensors (LiDAR and cameras). Results show that i) the
proposed Where2comm consistently and signiﬁcantly outperforms previous works in the performance-
bandwidth trade-off across multiple datasets and modalities; and ii) Where2comm achieves better
trade-off when the communication round increases.
2 Related Works
Multi-agent communication. The communication strategy in multi-agent systems has been widely
studied [20]. Early works [21–23] often use predeﬁned protocols or heuristics to decide how agents
communicate with each other. However, it is difﬁcult to generalize those methods to complex
tasks. Recent works, thus, explore learning-based methods for complex scenarios. For example,
2
Table 1: Major components comparisons of collaborative perception systems.
Method Venue Message packing Communication graph construction Message fusion
When2com [12] CVPR 2020 Full feature map Handshake-based sparse graph Attention per-agent
V2VNet [1] ECCV 2020 Full feature map Fully connected graph Average per-agent
DiscoNet [2] NeurIPS 2021 Full feature map Fully connected graph MLP-based attention per-location
V2X-ViT [26] ECCV 2022 Full feature map Fully connected graph Self-attention per-location
Where2comm NeurIPS 2022 Conﬁdence-aware sparse Conﬁdence-aware sparse graph Conﬁdence-aware multi-head
feature map + request map attention per-location
CommNet [24] learns continuous communication in the multi-agent system. Vain [25] adopts the
attention mechanism to help agents selectively fuse the information from others. Most of these
previous works consider decision-making tasks and adopt reinforcement learning due to the lack
of explicit supervision. In this work, we focus on the perception task. Based on direct perception
supervision, we apply supervised learning to optimize the communication strategy in both trade-off
perception ability and communication cost.
Collaborative perception. As a recent application of multi-agent communication systems to percep-
tion tasks, collaborative perception is still immature. To support this area of research, there is a surge
of high-quality datasets (e.g., V2X-Sim [9], OpenV2V [10], Comap[27] and DAIR-V2X[11]), as
well as collaboration methods aimed for better performance-bandwidth trade-off (see comparisons
in Table 1). When2com [12] proposes a handshake communication mechanism to decide when to
communicate and create sparse communication graph. V2VNet [1] proposes multi-round message
passing based on graph neural networks to achieve better perception and prediction performance.
DiscoNet [2] adopts knowledge distillation to take the advantage of both early and intermediate
collaboration. OPV2V [10] proposes a graph-based attentive intermediate fusion to improve percep-
tion performances. V2X-ViT [26] introduces a novel heterogeneous multi-agent attention module
to fuse information across heterogeneous agents. In this work, we leverage the proposed spatial
conﬁdence map to promote more compact messages, more sparse communication graphs, and more
comprehensive fusion, resulting in efﬁcient and effective collaboration.
3 Problem Formulation
ConsiderN agents in the scene. LetXi andYi be the observation and the perception supervision
of the ith agent, respectively. The objective of collaborative perception is to achieve the maxi-
mized perception performance of all agents as a function of the total communication budgeB and
communication roundK; that is,
ξΦ(B,K ) = arg max
θ,P
N∑
i=1
g
(
Φθ
(
Xi,{P(K)
i→j}N
j=1
)
,Yi
)
, s.t.
K∑
k=1
N∑
i=1
|P(k)
i→j|≤ B,
whereg(·,·) is the perception evaluation metric, Φ is the perception network with trainable parameter
θ, andP(k)
i→j is the message transmitted from theith agent to thejth agent at thekth communication
round. Note that i) when B = K = 0, there is no collaboration and ξΦ(0, 0) reﬂects the single-
agent perception performance; ii) through optimizing the communication strategy and the network
parameter, collaborative perception should perform well consistently at any communication bandwidth
or round; and iii) we consider multi-round communication, where each agent serves as both a supporter
(offering message to help others) and a requester (requesting messages from others).
In this work, we consider the perception task of 3D object detection and present three contributions:
i) we make communication more efﬁcient by designing compact messages and sparse communication
graphs; ii) we boost the perception performance by implementing more comprehensive message
fusion; iii) we enable the overall system to adapt to varying communication conditions by dynamically
adjusting where and who to communicate.
4 Where2comm: Spatial Conﬁdence-Aware Collaborative Perception System
This section presents Where2comm, a multi-round, multi-modality, multi-agent collaborative per-
ception framework based on a spatial-conﬁdence-aware communication strategy; see the overview
in Fig. 2. Where2comm includes an observation encoder, a spatial conﬁdence generator, the spatial
conﬁdence-aware communication module, the spatial conﬁdence-aware message fusion module and
a detection decoder. Among ﬁve modules, the proposed spatial conﬁdence generator generates the
spatial conﬁdence map. Based on this spatial conﬁdence map, the proposed spatial conﬁdence-aware
communication generates compact messages and sparse communication graphs to save commu-
nication bandwidth; and the proposed spatial conﬁdence-aware message fusion module leverages
3
Figure 2: System overview. In Where2comm, spatial conﬁdence generator enables the awareness of
spatial heterogeneous of perceptual information, spatial conﬁdence-aware communication enables
efﬁcient communication, and spatial conﬁdence-aware message fusion boosts the performance.
informative spatial conﬁdence priors to achieve better aggregation; also see an algorithmic summary
in Algorithm 1 and the optimization-oriented design rationale in Section 7.3 in Appendix.
4.1 Observation encoder
The observation encoder extracts feature maps from the sensor data.Where2comm accepts single/multi-
modality inputs, such as RGB images and 3D point clouds. This work adopts the feature represen-
tations in bird’s eye view (BEV), where all agents project their individual perceptual information
to the same global coordinate system, avoiding complex coordinate transformations and supporting
better shared cross-agent collaboration. For the ith agent, given its input Xi, the feature map is
F(0)
i = Φ enc(Xi)∈ RH×W×D, where Φenc(·) is the encoder, the superscript 0 reﬂects that the
feature is obtained before communication andH,W,D are its height, weight and channel. All agents
share the same BEV coordinate system. For the image input, Φenc(·) is followed by a warping
function that transforms the extracted feature from front-view to BEV . For 3D point cloud input, we
discretize 3D points as a BEV map and Φenc(·) extracts features in BEV . The extracted feature map
is output to the spatial conﬁdence generator and the message fusion module.
4.2 Spatial conﬁdence generator
The spatial conﬁdence generator generates a spatial conﬁdence map from the feature map of each
agent. The spatial conﬁdence map reﬂects the perceptually critical level of various spatial areas.
Intuitively, for object detection task, the areas that contain objects are more critical than background
areas. During collaboration, areas with objects could help recover the miss-detected objects due to
the limited view; and background areas could be omitted to save the precious bandwidth. So we
represent the spatial conﬁdence map with the detection conﬁdence map, where the area with high
perceptually critical level is the area that contains an object with a high conﬁdence score.
To implement, we use a detection decoder structure to produce the detection conﬁdence map. Given
the feature map at thekth communication round,F(k)
i , the corresponding spatial conﬁdence map is
C(k)
i = Φgenerator(F(k)
i )∈ [0, 1]H×W, (1)
where the generator Φgenerator(·) follows a detection decoder. Since we consider multi-round
collaboration, Where2comm iteratively updates the feature map by aggregating information from
other agents. OnceF(k)
i is obtained, (1) is triggered to reﬂect the perceptually critical level at each
spatial location. The proposed spatial conﬁdence map answers a crucial question that was ignored by
previous works: for each agent, information at which spatial area is worth sharing with others. By
answering this, it provides a solid base for efﬁcient communication and effective message fusion.
4.3 Spatial conﬁdence-aware communication
With the guidance of spatial conﬁdence maps, the proposed communication module packs compact
messages with spatially sparse feature maps and transmits messages through a sparsely-connected
communication graph. Most existing collaboration perception systems [1, 2, 26] considers full feature
maps in the messages and fully-connected communication graphs. To reduce the communication
bandwidth without affecting perception, we leverage the spatial conﬁdence map to select the most
4
informative spatial areas in the feature map (where to communicate) and decide the most beneﬁcial
collaboration partners (who to communicate).
Message packing. Message packing determines what information should be included in the to-be-
sent message. The proposed message includes: i) a request map that indicates at which spatial areas
the agent needs to know more; and ii) a spatially sparse, yet perceptually critical feature map.
The request map of theith agent is R(k)
i = 1− C(k)
i ∈ RH×W , negatively correlated with the spatial
conﬁdence map. The intuition is, for the locations with low conﬁdence score, an agent is hard to
tell if there is really no objects or it is just caused by the limited information (e.g. occlusion). Thus,
the low conﬁdence score indicates there could be missing information at that location. Requesting
information at these locations from other agents could improve the current agent’s detection accuracy.
The spatially sparse feature map are selected based on each agent’s spatial conﬁdence map and the
received request maps from others. Speciﬁcally, a binary selection matrix is used to represent each
location is selected or not, where 1 denotes selected, and 0 elsewhere. For the message sent from the
ith agent to thejth agent at thekth communication round, the binary selection matrix is
M(k)
i→j =
{
Φselect(C(k)
i )∈{ 0, 1}H×W, k = 0;
Φselect(C(k)
i ⊙ R(k−1)
j ),∈{ 0, 1}H×W, k> 0;
(2)
where⊙ is the element-wise multiplication, R(k−1)
j is the request map from thejth agent received at
the previous round, Φselect(·) is the selection function which targets to select the most critical areas
conditioned on the input matrix, which represents the critical level at the certain spatial location. We
implement Φselect(·) by selecting the locations where the largest elements at in the given input matrix
conditioned on the bandwidth limit; optionally, a Gaussian ﬁlter could be applied to ﬁlter out the
outliers and introduce some context. In the initial communication round, each agent selects the most
critical areas from its own perspective as the request maps from other agents are not available yet; in
the subsequent rounds, each agent also takes the partner’s request into account, enabling more targeted
communication. Then, the selected feature map is obtained asZ(k)
i→j = M(k)
i→j⊙F (k)
i ∈ RH×W×D,
which provides spatially sparse, yet perceptually critical information.
Overall, the message sent from the ith agent to the jth agent at the kth communication round
isP(k)
i→j = ( R(k)
i ,Z(k)
i→j). Note that i) R(k)
i provides spatial priors to request complementary
information for the ith agent’s need in the next round; the feature mapZ(k)
i→j provides supportive
information for the ith agent’s need in the this round. They together enable mutually beneﬁcial
collaboration; ii) sinceZ(k)
i→j is sparse, we only transmit non-zero features and corresponding indices,
leading to low communication cost; and iii) the sparsity ofZ(k)
i→j is determined by the binary selection
matrix, which dynamically allocates the communication budget at various spatial areas based on their
perceptual critical level, adapting to various communication conditions.
Communication graph construction. Communication graph construction targets to identify when
and who to communicate to avoid unnecessary communication that wastes the bandwidth. Most
previous works [1, 2, 10] consider fully-connected communication graphs. When2com [12] proposes
a handshake mechanism, which uses similar global features to match partners. This is hard to interpret
because two agents, which have similar global features, do not necessarily need information from
each other. Different from all previous works, we provide an explicit design rationale: the necessity
of communication between theith and thejth agents is simply measured by the overlap between the
information that theith agent has and the information that thejth agent needs. With the help of the
spatial conﬁdence map and the request map, we construct a more interpretable communication graph.
For the initial communication round, every agent in the system is not aware of other agents yet.
To activate the collaboration, we construct a fully-connected communication graph. Every agent
will broadcast its message to the rest of the system. For the subsequent communication rounds, we
examine if the communication between agenti and agentj is necessary based on the maximum value
of the binary selection matrix M(k)
i→j, i.e. if there is at least one patch is activated, then we regard the
connection is necessary. Formally, let A(k) be the adjacency matrix of the communication graph at
thekth communication round, whose (i,j )th element is
A(k)
i,j =
{ 1, k = 0;
maxh∈{0,1,..,H−1},w∈{0,1,...,W−1}
(
M(k)
i→j
)
h,w
∈{ 0, 1}, k> 0;
5
whereh,w index the spatial area, reﬂecting message passing from the ith agent to the jth agent.
Given this sparse communication graph, agents can exchange messages with selected partners.
4.4 Spatial conﬁdence-aware message fusion
Spatial conﬁdence-aware message fusion targets to augment the feature of each agent by aggregating
the received messages from the other agents. To achieve this, we adopt a transformer architecture,
which leverages multi-head attention to fuse the corresponding features from multiple agents at each
individual spatial location. The key technical design is to include the spatial conﬁdence maps of all
the agents to promote cross-agent attention learning. The intuition is that, the spatial conﬁdence map
could explicitly reﬂect the perceptually critical level, providing a useful prior for attention learning.
Speciﬁcally, for theith agent, after receiving thejth agent’s messageP(k)
j→i, it could unpack to retrieve
the feature mapZ(k)
j→i and the spatial conﬁdence map C(k)
j = 1− R(k)
j . We also include the ego
feature map in fusion and denoteZ(k)
i→i =F(k)
i to make the formulation simple and consistent, where
Z(k)
i→i might not be sparse. To fuse the features from thejth agent at thekth communication round,
the cross-agent/ego attention weight for theith agent is
W(k)
j→i = MHAW
(
F(k)
i ,Z(k)
j→i,Z(k)
j→i
)
⊙ C(k)
j ∈ RH×W, (3)
where MHAW(·) is a multi-head attention applied at each individual spatial location, which outputs
the scaled dot-product attention weight. Note that i) the proposed spatial conﬁdence maps contributes
to the attention weight, as the features with higher perceptually critical level are more preferred in
the feature aggregation; ii) the cross-agent attention weight models the collaboration strength with
aH×W spatial resolution, leading to more ﬂexible information fusion at various spatial regions.
Then, the feature map of theith agent after fusing the messages in thekth communication round is
F(k+1)
i = FFN

 ∑
j∈Ni
⋃{i}
W(k)
j→i⊙Z (k)
j→i

∈ RH×W×D,
where FFN(·) is the feed-forward network andNi is the neighbors of theith agent deﬁned in the
communication graph A(k). The fused featureF(k+1)
i would serve as theith agent’s feature in the
(k + 1)th round. In the ﬁnal round, we outputF(k+1)
i to the detection decoder to generate detections.
Sensor positional encoding. Sensor positional encoding represents the physical distance between
each agent’s sensor and its observation. It adopts a standard positional encoding function conditioned
on the sensing distance and feature dimension. The features are summed up with the positional
encoding of each location before inputting to the transformer.
Compared to existing fusion modules that do not use attention mechanism [1] or only use agent-level
attentions [12], the per-location attention mechanism adopted by the proposed fusion emphasizes the
location-speciﬁc feature interactions. It makes the feature fusion more targeted. Compared to the
methods that also use the per-location attention-based fusion module[2, 10, 26], the proposed fusion
module leverages multi-head attention with two extra priors, including spatial conﬁdence map and
sensing distances. Both assist attention learning to prefer high quality and critical features.
4.5 Detection decoder
The detection decoder decodes features into objects, including class and regression output. Given
the feature map at thekth communication roundF(k)
i , the detection decoder Φdec(·) generate the
detections ofith agent by ˆO(k)
i = Φdec(F(k)
i )∈ RH×W×7, where each location of ˆO(k)
i represents a
rotated box with class (c,x,y,h,w, cosα, sinα), denoting class conﬁdence, position, size and angle.
The objects are the ﬁnal output of the proposed collaborative perception system. Note that ˆO(0)
i
denotes the detections without collaboration.
4.6 Training details and loss functions
To train the overall system, we supervise two tasks: spatial conﬁdence generation and object detection
at each round. As mentioned before, the functionality of the spatial conﬁdence generator is the same
as the classiﬁcation in the detection decoder. To promote parameter efﬁciency, our spatial conﬁdence
generator reuses the parameters of the detection decoder. For the multi-round settings, each round is
6
(a) CoPerception-UA Vs
 (b) OPV2V
(c) V2X-Sim
 (d) DAIR-V2X
Figure 3: Where2comm achieves consistently superior performance-bandwidth trade-off on all the
three collaborative perception datasets, e.g, Where2comm achieves 5,000 times less communication
volume and still outperforms When2com on CoPerception-UA Vs dataset. The entire red curve comes
from a single Where2comm model evaluated at varying bandwidths.
supervised with one detection loss, the overall loss isL =∑K
k=0
∑N
i Ldet
(
ˆO(k)
i ,Oi
)
, whereOi is
theith agent’s ground-truth objects,Ldet is the detection loss [28].
Training strategy for multi-round setting. To adapt to multi-round communication and dynamic
bandwidth, we train the model under various communication settings with curriculum learning
strategy [29]. We ﬁrst gradually increase the communication bandwidth and round; and then,
randomly sample bandwidth and round to promote robustness. Through this training strategy, a single
model can perform well at various communication conditions.
5 Experimental Results
Our experiments covers four datasets, both real-world and simulation scenarios, two types of
agents (cars and drones) and two types of sensors (LiDAR and cameras). Speciﬁcally, we con-
duct camera-only 3D object detection in the setting of V2X-communication aided autonomous
driving on OPV2V dataset [10], camera-only 3D object detection in the setting of drone swarm on
the proposed CoPerception-UA Vs dataset, and LiDAR-based 3D object detection on DAIR-V2X
dataset [11] and V2X-Sim dataset [9]. The detection results are evaluated by Average Precision (AP)
at Intersection-over-Union (IoU) threshold of 0.50 and 0.70. The communication results count the
message size by byte in log scale with base 2. To compare communication results straightforward
and fair, we do not consider any extra data/feature/model compression.
5.1 Datasets and experimental settings
OPV2V .OPV2V [ 10] is a vehicle-to-vehicle collaborative perception dataset, co-simulated by
OpenCDA [10] and Carla [30]. It includes 12K frames of 3D point clouds and RGB images with
230K annotated 3D boxes. The perception range is 40m×40m. For camera-only 3D object detection
task on OPV2V , we implement the detector following CADDN [31]. The input front-view image size
is (416, 160). The front-view input feature map is transformed to BEV with resolution 0.5m/pixel.
V2X-Sim. V2X-Sim [9] is a vehicle-to-everything collaborative perception dataset, co-simulated
by SUMO [32] and Carla, including 10K frames of 3D LiDAR point clouds and 501K 3D boxes.
7
(a) CoPerception-UA Vs
 (b) OPV2V
 (c) V2X-Sim
Figure 4: More communication rounds continuously improve performance-bandwidth trade-off.
The perception range is 64m×64m. For LiDAR-based 3D object detection task, our detector follows
MotionNet [33]. We discretize 3D points into a BEV map with size (256, 256, 13) and the resolution
is 0.4m/pixel in length and width, 0.25m in height.
CoPerception-UA Vs.To enrich the collaborative perception datasets, we consider the swarm of
unmanned aerial vehicles (UA V) and propose a UA V-swarm-based collaborative perception dataset:
CoPerception-UA Vs, co-simulated by AirSim [34] and Carla [30], including 131.9K aerial images and
1.94M 3D boxes. The perception range is 200m×350m. For the camera-only 3D object detection task
on CoPerception-UA Vs, our detector follows DVDET [8]. The input aerial image size is (800, 450).
The aerial-view input feature map is transformed to BEV with the resolution of 0.25m/pixel, and the
size is (192, 352); see more details in Appendix.
DAIR-V2X. DAIR-V2X [11] is the only public real-world collaborative perception dataset. Each
sample contains two agents: a vehicle and an infrastructure, with 3D annotations. The perception
range is 201.6m×80m. Originally DAIR-V2X does not label objects outside the camera’s view,
we relabel all objects to cover 360-degree detection range. We complement several intermediate
fusion-based baselines on DAIR-V2X to comprehensively validate our method on real data. For
LiDAR-based 3D object detection task, our detector follows PointPillar [35]. We represent the ﬁeld
of view into a BEV map with size (200, 504, 64) and the resolution is 0.4m/pixel in length and width.
5.2 Quantitative evaluation
Benchmark comparison. Fig. 3 compares the proposed Where2comm with the previous methods in
terms of the trade-off between detection performance (AP@IoU=0.50) and communication bandwidth;
also see exact values in Table 3 of Appendix. We consider single-agent detection without collaboration
(ˆO(0)
i ), When2com [12], V2VNet [1], DiscoNet [2], V2X-ViT [26] and late fusion, where agents
directly exchange the detected 3D boxes. The red curve comes from a single Where2comm model
evaluated at varying bandwidths. We see that the proposed Where2comm: i) achieves a far-more
superior perception-communication trade-off across all the communication bandwidth choices and
various collaborative perception tasks, including camera-only 3D object detection from aerial view
and car front view, and LiDAR-based 3D object detection; ii) achieves signiﬁcant improvements over
previous state-of-the-arts on both real-world (DAIR-V2X) and simulation scenarios, improves the
SOTA performance by 7.7% on DAIR-V2X, 6.62% on CoPerception-UA Vs, 25.81% on OPV2V ,
1.9% on V2X-Sim; iii) achieves the same detection performance of previous state-of-the-arts with
extremely less communication volume: 5128 times less on CoPerception-UA Vs, more than 100K
times less on OPV2V , 55 times less on V2X-Sim, 105 times less on DAIR-V2X.
Multi-round evaluation. Fig. 4 presents the performances ofWhere2comm at communication rounds
ranging from 1 to 3. Each curve comes from a single Where2comm model with a certain communica-
tion round evaluated at varying bandwidths. Results show that 1 communication round is good, more
rounds are even better. Multi-round communication steadily improves the performance-bandwidth
trade-off across all three datasets, reﬂecting its effectiveness and robustness. This encourages the
agents to actively collaborate without worrying the performance degradation. This also validates
that Where2comm can well work at various communication bandwidths and rounds.
Robustness to localization noise. We follow the localization noise setting in V2VNet and V2X-ViT
(Gaussian noise with a mean of 0m and a standard deviation of 0m-0.6m) and conduct experiments
on all the three datasets to validate the robustness against realistic localization noise. Where2comm is
more robust to the localization noise than previous SOTAs. Fig. 5 shows the detection performances
as a function of localization noise level in CoPerception-UA Vs, OPV2V and V2X-Sim datasets,
respectively We see: i) overall the collaborative perception performance degrades with the increasing
8
(a) CoPerception-UA Vs
 (b) OPV2V
 (c) V2X-Sim
Figure 5: Robustness to localization error. Gaussian noise with zero mean and varying std is
introduced. Where2comm consistently outperforms previous SOTAs and No Collaboration.
(a) X1 in BEV
 (b) C(0)
1
 (c) M(0)
1→2
 (d) W(0)
1→1
 (e) ˆO(0)
1
(f) X2 in BEV
 (g) R(0)
2
 (h) Z (0)
2→1
 (i) W(0)
2→1
 (j) ˆO(1)
1
Figure 6: Visualization of collaboration between Drone 1 and Drone 2 on CoPerception-UA Vs
dataset, including spatial conﬁdence map (C(0)
1 ), selection matrix (M(0)
1→2), message ({R(0)
2 ,Z(0)
2→1})
in the communication module, attention weight in the fusion module (W(0)
1→1,W(0)
2→1), and Drone 1’s
detection results before (ˆO(0)
1 ) and after (ˆO(1)
1 ) collaboration. Green and red boxes denote ground-
truth and detection, respectively. The objects occluded by a tall building can be detected through
transmitting spatially sparse, yet perceptually critical message.
localization noise, while where2comm outperforms previous SOTAs (When2com, V2VNet,DiscoNet)
under all the localization noise. ii) where2comm keeps being superior to No Collaboration while
V2VNet fails when noise is over 0.4m and DiscoNet fails when noise is over 0.5m on CoPerception-
UA Vs. The reasons are: i) the powerful transformer architecture in fusion module attentively select
the most suitable collaborative feature; ii) the spatial conﬁdence map helps ﬁlter out noisy features,
these two designs work together to mitigate noise localization distortion effects.
5.3 Qualitative evaluation
Visualization of spatial conﬁdence map. Fig. 6 illustrates how Where2comm is empowered by the
proposed spatial conﬁdence map. In the scene, Drone 1’s view is occluded by a tall building. With
Drone 2’s help, Drone 1 is able to detect through occlusion. Fig. 6 (a-d) shows Drone 1’s observation,
spatial conﬁdence map (1), binary selection matrix (2), and ego attention weight (3). Fig. 6 (f-h)
shows Drone 2’s observation and message sent to Drone 1, including the request map (opposite of
conﬁdence map) and the sparse feature map, achieving efﬁcient communication. Fig. 6 (i) shows
the attention weight for Drone 1 to fuse Drone 2’s messages, which is sparse, yet highlights the
objects’ positions. Fig. 6 (e) and (j) compares the detection results before and after the collaboration
with Drone 2. We see that the proposed spatial conﬁdence map contributes to spatially sparse, yet
perceptually critical message, which effectively helps Drone 1 detect occluded objects.
Visualization of detection results. Fig. 7 shows that compared to No Collaboration, When2com
and DiscoNet, Where2comm is able to achieves more complete and accurate detection results. The
reason is that When2com employs a scalar to denote the agent-to-agent attention, which cannot
distinguish which spatial area is more informative; DiscoNet employs a MLP-based fusion weight
learning, which cannot well capture the complex collaboration attention; while Where2comm can
zoom in to critical spatial areas in a cell-level resolution and leverage the spatial conﬁdence map and
sensing distances as priors to achieve more comprehensive fusion.
9
(a) No Collaboration
 (b) When2com
 (c) DiscoNet
 (d) Where2comm
Figure 7: Where2comm qualitatively outperforms When2com and DiscoNet in DAIR-V2X dataset.
Green and red boxes denote ground-truth and detection, respectively. Yellow and blue denote the
point clouds collected from vehicle and infrastructure, respectively.
Figure 8: Selection matrix ablation
study. Applying Gaussian ﬁlter im-
proves performance.
Table 2: Fusion component ablation study. Multi-head atten-
tion (MHA), sensor positional encoding (SPE) and spatial
conﬁdence map (SCM) all improves the performances. Re-
sults are reported in AP@0.50/AP@0.70.
MHA SPE SCM OPV2V CoPerception-UA Vs V2X-Sim
34.96/13.92 63.48/44.23 51.2/45.7
✓ 38.75/13.28 63.99/44.46 57.3/50.8
✓ ✓ 39.82/16.43 64.34/46.86 59.1/52.0
✓ ✓ ✓ 47.30/19.30 64.83/47.62 59.1/52.2
5.4 Ablation studies
Effect of Gaussian ﬁlter in perceptually critical area selection. Fig. 8 compares two versions
of the selection matrix (2) with and without Gaussian ﬁlter. We see that applying Gaussian ﬁlter
improves the overall performance. The reason is that: i) Gaussian ﬁlter could help ﬁlter out the
outliers in the input map, selecting more robust critical regions; ii) it considers the context, beneﬁting
the independent feature selection at each certain location by providing more information.
Effect of components in spatial conﬁdence-aware message fusion. Tab. 2 assesses the effective-
ness of the proposed fusion with two priors. We see that: i) per-location multi-head attention (MHA)
outperforms the vanilla attention by 10.84% on OPV2V on AP@0.50, because MHA leverages
information from multiple heads, better capturing cross-agent attention; and ii) As two informative
priors, both sensing position encoding (SPE) and spatial conﬁdence map (SCM) can consistently
improve the performance. Especially, the version with all three designs improves the detection
performance by 22.06% on OPV2V on AP@0.50.
6 Conclusion and limitation
We propose Where2comm, a novel communication-efﬁcient collaborative perception framework. The
core idea is to exploit a spatial conﬁdence map at each agent to promote pragmatic compression,
assisting agents to decide what to communicate with whom, and whose information to aggregate.
Each agent offers spatially sparse, yet perceptually critical features to support other agents; meanwhile,
requests complementary information from others in multi-round communication. Comprehensive
experiments covering multi-type agents and multi-modality inputs show that Where2comm achieves
far superior trade-off between perception performance and communication bandwidth.
Limitation and future work. The current work focuses on perceptually critical spatial areas. In
future, we plan to expand a similar idea to the temporal dimension and determine critical time stamps.
More cost will be reduced by exploring when to communicate. We also expect that more methods on
pragmatic compression and emergent communication could be applied to collaborative perception.
Acknowledgment. This research is partially supported by the National Key R&D Program of China
under Grant 2021ZD0112801, National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant 62171276,
the Science and Technology Commission of Shanghai Municipal under Grant 21511100900, CCF-
DiDi GAIA Research Collaboration Plan 202112 and CALT Grant 2021-01.
10
References
[1] Tsun-Hsuan Wang, Sivabalan Manivasagam, Ming Liang, Bin Yang, Wenyuan Zeng, and Raquel Urtasun.
V2vnet: Vehicle-to-vehicle communication for joint perception and prediction. In European Conference
on Computer Vision, pages 605–621. Springer, 2020.
[2] Yiming Li, Shunli Ren, Pengxiang Wu, Siheng Chen, Chen Feng, and Wenjun Zhang. Learning distilled
collaboration graph for multi-agent perception. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 34,
2021.
[3] Siheng Chen, Baoan Liu, Chen Feng, Carlos Vallespi-Gonzalez, and Carl K. Wellington. 3d point cloud
processing and learning for autonomous driving: Impacting map creation, localization, and perception.
IEEE Signal Processing Magazine, 38:68–86, 2021.
[4] Zhi Li, Ali Vatankhah Barenji, Jiazhi Jiang, Ray Y Zhong, and Gangyan Xu. A mechanism for scheduling
multi robot intelligent warehouse system face with dynamic demand. Journal of Intelligent Manufacturing,
31(2):469–480, 2020.
[5] Michela Zaccaria, Mikhail Giorgini, Riccardo Monica, and Jacopo Aleotti. Multi-robot multiple camera
people detection and tracking in automated warehouses. In 2021 IEEE 19th International Conference on
Industrial Informatics (INDIN), pages 1–6. IEEE, 2021.
[6] Jürgen Scherer, Saeed Yahyanejad, Samira Hayat, Evsen Yanmaz, Torsten Andre, Asif Khan, Vladimir
Vukadinovic, Christian Bettstetter, Hermann Hellwagner, and Bernhard Rinner. An autonomous multi-uav
system for search and rescue. In Proceedings of the First Workshop on Micro Aerial Vehicle Networks,
Systems, and Applications for Civilian Use, pages 33–38, 2015.
[7] Ebtehal Turki Alotaibi, Shahad Saleh Alqefari, and Anis Koubaa. Lsar: Multi-uav collaboration for search
and rescue missions. IEEE Access, 7:55817–55832, 2019.
[8] Yue Hu, Shaoheng Fang, Weidi Xie, and Siheng Chen. Aerial monocular 3d object detection. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2208.03974, 2022.
[9] Yiming Li, Ziyan An, Zixun Wang, Yiqi Zhong, Siheng Chen, and Chen Feng. V2X-Sim: A virtual
collaborative perception dataset for autonomous driving. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 7, 2022.
[10] Runsheng Xu, Hao Xiang, Xin Xia, Xu Han, Jinlong Liu, and Jiaqi Ma. OPV2V: An open benchmark
dataset and fusion pipeline for perception with vehicle-to-vehicle communication. ICRA, 2022.
[11] Haibao Yu, Yizhen Luo, Mao Shu, Yiyi Huo, Zebang Yang, Yifeng Shi, Zhenglong Guo, Hanyu Li,
Xing Hu, Jirui Yuan, et al. DAIR-V2X: A large-scale dataset for vehicle-infrastructure cooperative 3d
object detection. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on computer vision and pattern recognition
(CVPR), 2022.
[12] Yen-Cheng Liu, Junjiao Tian, Nathaniel Glaser, and Zsolt Kira. When2com: Multi-agent perception via
communication graph grouping. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on computer vision and
pattern recognition, pages 4106–4115, 2020.
[13] Yen-Cheng Liu, Junjiao Tian, Chih-Yao Ma, Nathan Glaser, Chia-Wen Kuo, and Zsolt Kira. Who2com:
Collaborative perception via learnable handshake communication. In 2020 IEEE International Conference
on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 6876–6883. IEEE, 2020.
[14] Yang Zhou, Jiuhong Xiao, Yue Zhou, and Giuseppe Loianno. Multi-robot collaborative perception with
graph neural networks. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 2022.
[15] Eduardo Arnold, Mehrdad Dianati, and Robert de Temple. Cooperative perception for 3d object detection
in driving scenarios using infrastructure sensors. IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems,
23:1852–1864, 2022.
[16] Zixing Lei, Shunli Ren, Yue Hu, Wenjun Zhang, and Siheng Chen. Latency-aware collaborative perception.
ECCV, 2022.
[17] Yiming Li, Juexiao Zhang, Dekun Ma, Yue Wang, and Chen Feng. Multi-robot scene completion: Towards
task-agnostic collaborative perception. In Conference on Robot Learning (CoRL). PMLR, 2022.
[18] Runsheng Xu, Zhengzhong Tu, Hao Xiang, Wei Shao, Bolei Zhou, and Jiaqi Ma. CoBEVT: Cooperative
bird’s eye view semantic segmentation with sparse transformers.CoRL, 2022.
[19] Sanbao Su, Yiming Li, Sihong He, Songyang Han, Chen Feng, Caiwen Ding, and Fei Miao. Uncertainty
quantiﬁcation of collaborative detection for self-driving, 2022.
11
[20] Amanpreet Singh, Tushar Jain, and Sainbayar Sukhbaatar. Learning when to communicate at scale in
multiagent cooperative and competitive tasks. ICLR, 2019.
[21] Ming Tan. Multi-agent reinforcement learning: Independent vs. cooperative agents. In Proceedings of the
tenth international conference on machine learning, pages 330–337, 1993.
[22] Faisal Qureshi and Demetri Terzopoulos. Smart camera networks in virtual reality. Proceedings of the
IEEE, 96(10):1640–1656, 2008.
[23] Yiming Li, Bir Bhanu, and Wei Lin. Auction protocol for camera active control. In2010 IEEE International
Conference on Image Processing, pages 4325–4328. IEEE, 2010.
[24] Sainbayar Sukhbaatar, Rob Fergus, et al. Learning multiagent communication with backpropagation.
Advances in neural information processing systems, 29, 2016.
[25] Yedid Hoshen. Vain: Attentional multi-agent predictive modeling. Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 30, 2017.
[26] Runsheng Xu, Hao Xiang, Zhengzhong Tu, Xin Xia, Ming-Hsuan Yang, and Jiaqi Ma. V2X-ViT:
Vehicle-to-everything cooperative perception with vision transformer.ECCV, 2022.
[27] Y Yuan and M Sester. Comap: A synthetic dataset for collective multi-agent perception of autonomous
driving. The International Archives of Photogrammetry, Remote Sensing and Spatial Information Sciences,
43:255–263, 2021.
[28] Xingyi Zhou, Dequan Wang, and Philipp Krähenbühl. Objects as points. In arXiv preprint
arXiv:1904.07850, 2019.
[29] Yoshua Bengio, Jérôme Louradour, Ronan Collobert, and Jason Weston. Curriculum learning. In
Proceedings of the 26th annual international conference on machine learning, pages 41–48, 2009.
[30] Alexey Dosovitskiy, German Ros, Felipe Codevilla, Antonio Lopez, and Vladlen Koltun. Carla: An open
urban driving simulator. In Conference on robot learning, pages 1–16. PMLR, 2017.
[31] Cody Reading, Ali Harakeh, Julia Chae, and Steven L. Waslander. Categorical depth distribution network
for monocular 3d object detection. CVPR, 2021.
[32] Daniel Krajzewicz, Jakob Erdmann, Michael Behrisch, and Laura Bieker. Recent development and
applications of sumo-simulation of urban mobility. International journal on advances in systems and
measurements, 5(3&4), 2012.
[33] Pengxiang Wu, Siheng Chen, and Dimitris N. Metaxas. Motionnet: Joint perception and motion prediction
for autonomous driving based on bird’s eye view maps.2020 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pages 11382–11392, 2020.
[34] Shital Shah, Debadeepta Dey, Chris Lovett, and Ashish Kapoor. Airsim: High-ﬁdelity visual and physical
simulation for autonomous vehicles. In Field and service robotics, pages 621–635. Springer, 2018.
[35] Alex H. Lang, Sourabh V ora, Holger Caesar, Lubing Zhou, Jiong Yang, and Oscar Beijbom. Pointpillars:
Fast encoders for object detection from point clouds. 2019 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pages 12689–12697, 2019.
[36] Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez, Łukasz
Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. Attention is all you need. Advances in neural information processing systems,
30, 2017.
[37] Fisher Yu, Dequan Wang, Evan Shelhamer, and Trevor Darrell. Deep layer aggregation. In Proceedings of
the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, pages 2403–2412, 2018.
[38] Xizhou Zhu, Weijie Su, Lewei Lu, Bin Li, Xiaogang Wang, and Jifeng Dai. Deformable DETR: Deformable
transformers for end-to-end object detection. ICLR, 2021.
[39] Holger Caesar, Varun Bankiti, Alex H. Lang, Sourabh V ora, Venice Erin Liong, Qiang Xu, Anush Krishnan,
Yu Pan, Giancarlo Baldan, and Oscar Beijbom. nuscenes: A multimodal dataset for autonomous driving.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1903.11027, 2019.
12
Checklist
1. For all authors...
(a) Do the main claims made in the abstract and introduction accurately reﬂect the paper’s
contributions and scope? [Yes]
(b) Did you describe the limitations of your work? [Yes]
(c) Did you discuss any potential negative societal impacts of your work? [N/A]
(d) Have you read the ethics review guidelines and ensured that your paper conforms to
them? [Yes]
2. If you are including theoretical results...
(a) Did you state the full set of assumptions of all theoretical results? [N/A]
(b) Did you include complete proofs of all theoretical results? [N/A]
3. If you ran experiments...
(a) Did you include the code, data, and instructions needed to reproduce the main experi-
mental results (either in the supplemental material or as a URL)? [Yes] See Section 5.1
and the supplemental material.
(b) Did you specify all the training details (e.g., data splits, hyperparameters, how they
were chosen)? [Yes] See Section 5.1 and the supplemental material.
(c) Did you report error bars (e.g., with respect to the random seed after running experi-
ments multiple times)? [No] We have not repeated experiments many times to get error
bars since experiments of 3d object detection on large scale datasets is time-consuming.
(d) Did you include the total amount of compute and the type of resources used (e.g.,
type of GPUs, internal cluster, or cloud provider)? [Yes] See Section 5.1 and the
supplemental material.
4. If you are using existing assets (e.g., code, data, models) or curating/releasing new assets...
(a) If your work uses existing assets, did you cite the creators? [Yes] See Section 5.1.
(b) Did you mention the license of the assets? [Yes] See Section 5.1.
(c) Did you include any new assets either in the supplemental material or as a URL? [Yes]
See Section 5.1 and the supplemental material.
(d) Did you discuss whether and how consent was obtained from people whose data you’re
using/curating? [N/A] We generate the data using the open-sourced tool and the owners
consent to all the public use for research purposes.
(e) Did you discuss whether the data you are using/curating contains personally identiﬁable
information or offensive content? [N/A] Our data is synthesized using the open-sourced
tool, so there is no real-world personally identiﬁable information, nor offensive content.
5. If you used crowdsourcing or conducted research with human subjects...
(a) Did you include the full text of instructions given to participants and screenshots, if
applicable? [N/A]
(b) Did you describe any potential participant risks, with links to Institutional Review
Board (IRB) approvals, if applicable? [N/A]
(c) Did you include the estimated hourly wage paid to participants and the total amount
spent on participant compensation? [N/A]
13
Algorithm 1 Multi-round spatial conﬁdence-aware collaborative perception system
1: DeﬁneN as the number of agents ,K as communication round
2: # Initialization
3: fori = 1, 2,...,N , do
4: F(0)
i = Φenc(Xi)∈ RH×W×D ⊿ Extract intermediate feature
5: end for
6: fork = 0, 1,...,K − 1, do
7: fori = 1, 2,...,N , do # Each agent is computing individually
8: C(k)
i = Φgenerator(F(k)
i )∈ RH×W ⊿ Generate spatial conﬁdence map
9: forj = 1, 2,...,N , do
10: # Message packing
11: R(k)
i = 1− C(k)
i ∈ RH×W ⊿ Pack request map
12: ifk = 0 then
13: M(k)
i→j = Φselect(C(k)
i )∈{ 0, 1}H×W ⊿ Select critical areas
14: else
15: M(k)
i→j = Φselect(C(k)
i ⊙ R(k−1)
j )∈{ 0, 1}H×W ⊿ Select requested areas
16: end if
17: Z(k)
i→j = M(k)
i→j⊙F (k)
i ∈ RH×W×D ⊿ Pack spatially sparse features
18: # Communication graph learning
19: ifk = 0 then
20: A(k)
i→j = 1 ⊿ Broadcast critical features and request
21: else
22: A(k)
i→j = maxh,w
(
M(k)
i→j
)
h,w
∈{ 0, 1} ⊿ Communicate only when necessary
23: end if
24: end for
25: # Communication
26: SendPi→j =
(
Z(k)
i→j, R(k)
i
)
to other agents
27: Receive{Pj→i =
(
Z(k)
j→i, R(k)
j
)
,j ̸=i} from other agents
28: # Message fusion
29: F(k+1)
i =ffuse
(
F(k)
i ,{(Z(k)
j→i, R(k)
j ),j = 1, 2,...,N}
)
∈ RH×W×D
30: end for
31: StoreF(k+1)
i and{R(k)
j ,j ̸=i} for the next round
32: end for
33:O(K)
i = Φdec(F(K)
i ) ⊿ Output the ﬁnal detections
7 Appendix
7.1 Highlights of our contribution
To sum up, our contributions are:
• We propose a novel ﬁne-grained spatial-aware communication strategy, where each agent can
decide where to communicate and pack messages only related to the most perceptually critical spatial
areas. This strategy not only enables more precise support for other agents, but also more targeted
request from other agents in multi-round communication.
• We propose Where2comm, a novel collaborative perception framework based on the spatial-aware
communication strategy. With the guidance of the proposed spatial conﬁdence map, Where2comm
leverages novel message packing and communication graph learning to achieve lower communication
bandwidth, and adopts conﬁdence-aware multi-head attention to reach better perception performance.
• We conduct extensive experiments to validateWhere2comm achieves state-of-the-art performance-
bandwidth trade-off on multiple challenging real/simulated datasets across views and modalities.
14
7.2 Detailed information about the system pipeline
Alg. 1 presents the pipeline of our multi-round spatial conﬁdence-aware collaborative perception
system.
7.3 Detailed information about the optimization problem of collaborative perception
The constrained optimization in Sec.3 is the mathematical formation of collaborative perception.
It is hard to obtain the global optimum due to hard constrains and non-differentialability of binary
variables. Therefore, the proposed Where2comm essentially introduces an auxiliary variable and
decomposes the original problem into two sub-optimization problems, each one of which is easy to
solve.
To understand the details, let us consider a setting of ﬁxed communication bandwidth and communi-
cation round,K = 1,B = [B1]. Then, the optimization is
max
θ,P
N∑
i=1
g
(
Φθ
(
Xi,{Pi→j}N
j=1
)
,Yi
)
, s.t.
N∑
i,j=1
|Pi→j|≤ B1.
Since there is only one round, we do not consider the request map, then, the message sent from the
ith agent to thejth agent isPi→j =Zi→j = Mi→j⊙Fi, whose spatial sparsity is determined by
the binary selection mask Mi→j. Note that Mi→j determines where to communicate, and is the key
of the proposed Where2comm. Then, the original optimization is equivalent to
max
θ,M
N∑
i=1
g
(
Φθ
(
Xi,{Mi→j}N
j=1
)
,Yi
)
, s.t.
N∑
i=1
N∑
j=1,j̸=i
|Mi→j|≤ b1, Mi→j∈{ 0, 1}H×W,
(4)
whereFi can attribute to the network Φθ(·) and input dataXi andb1 =B1/D withD the channel
number ofFi. Due to the binary constrains, it is hard to optimize (4) directly. Instead, we decom-
pose (4) into two sub-optimization problems and optimize the binary selection matrix Mi→j and the
network parametersθ once at a time: i) obtain a feasible binary selection matrix Mi→j by optimizing
a proxy constrained problem; ii) given the feasible binary selection matrix Mi→j, optimize the
perception network parameterθ. The constraint is satisﬁed in i) and the perception goal is achieved
in ii). Speciﬁcally, two sub-optimization problems are
• Obtain a feasible binary selection matrixMi→j. This essentially optimizes where to allocate the
communication bandwidth. Intuitively, the spatial conﬁdence reﬂects the perceptually critical level,
so that those spatial regions with higher spatial conﬁdence will provide more critical information to
help the partners and should have a higher priority be selected.
Following this spirit, we consider a proxy constrained problem as follows,
max
M
N∑
i=1
N∑
j=1,j̸=i
Mi→j⊙ Ci, s.t.
N∑
i=1
N∑
j=1,j̸=i
|Mi→j|≤ b1, Mi→j∈{ 0, 1}H×W,
where Ci is the spatial conﬁdence map. Note that i) even this optimization problem has hard
constraints and non-differentialability of binary variables, it has an analytical solution that naturally
satisﬁes all the constraints in (4); and ii) even we cannot solve the original objective, this proxy
objective still carries the similar idea to promote better, yet more compact perception. This solution
is obtained by selecting those spatial regions whose corresponding elements in M rank top-b1. The
detailed steps of selection function are: i) arrange the elements in the input matrix in descending
order; ii) given the communication budget constrain, decide the total number (b1) of communication
regions; iii) set the spatial regions of M, where elements rank in top-b1 as the 1 and 0 verses.
• Given the feasible binary selection matrix, optimize the network parameterθ. This essentially
optimizes the perception performance. The sub-problem is
max
θ
N∑
i=1
g
(
Φθ
(
Xi,{Mi→j}N
j=1
)
,Yi
)
.
This can be solved by standard supervised learning. For example, the perception evaluation metric
g(·) can be evaluated by the detection loss calculated between detections and the ground-truth and the
15
Figure 9: Spatial conﬁdence-aware message packing module.⊙ denotes point-wise multiplication,⊖
denotes point-wise minus by a matrix with the same shape as the input and ﬁlled with 1. Best viewed
in color. Grey denotes the location being ﬁlled with zeros for the binary selection matrix M(k)
i→j and
the feature mapZ(k)
i→j.
à à
Spatial-decouple partially connectedAgent-level partially connectedFully connected 
Figure 10: Spatial conﬁdence-aware communication graph construction module. We spatially decou-
ple the full feature map, and could ﬂexibly involve the informative spatial areas in the communication.
This Spatial-decouple partially connected communication could further ﬂexibly prune irrelevant
connections per-location and is more bandwidth-efﬁcient.
detection loss is optimized with an Adam optimizer. We thus get the optimized perception network
parameterθ. Note that this sub-problem does not involve any constraints and is thus easy to optimize.
7.4 Detailed information about the module design
Observation encoder. Here we elaborate on the warping functions for the monocular camera, where
the depth is unknown and estimated. Instead of directly projecting 2D features to ﬂat ground space,
we ﬁrst lift them to 3D voxel space and then collapse them to the BEV . This design considers all the
possible depths/altitudes, introducing ﬂexibility in the projection, and mitigating the distortion effect
caused by information loss in imaging. The detailed steps are: 1) Categorical Depth Distribution
Network (CaDDN [31]), which is a recent and effective method to warp image feature to BEV feature,
is applied to estimate the depth distribution for each image feature point. 2) Each feature point is
wrapped from the 2D image space to the 3D physic space according to the known camera parameters.
3) The 3D voxel features are ﬂattened to BEV features. Brieﬂy, the warping function is unfolded
as follows: for each image feature point locates at (u,v ), given the estimated categorical depthdi,
and the known camera projection matrix P∈ R3×4, 3D physical space coordinates [x,y,z ]T is
calculated conditioned on the image feature coordinates [u,v,d i]T based on the projection function:
[u,v,d i]T = P· [x,y,z, 1]T .
Spatial conﬁdence-aware message packing. Fig. 9 presents the detail about the spatial conﬁdence-
aware message packing module. For the message from agenti to agentj atkth communication round,
the module takes the spatial conﬁdence map C(k)
i of agenti and the request map R(k−1)
j of agentj
16
Figure 11: Spatial conﬁdence-aware message fusion module. Each agent attentively augments the
features with the received messages at each location. And the per-location multi-head attention are
separately operated at each location in parallel, it takes the features and the corresponding conﬁdence
scores as input, and outputs the augmented features.
as input, and outputs the messageP(k)
i→j including the masked feature mapZ(k)
i→j and the request map
of agenti.
Spatial conﬁdence-aware communication graph construction. Fig. 10 presents the comparisons
on the communication graph with previous works. Fully connected versus agent-level partially
connected versus ours spatial-decouple partially connected communication. Fully connected commu-
nication results in a large amount of bandwidth usage, growing on the order ofO(N2), where N is the
number of agents in a network. Agent-level partially connected communication prune irrelevant con-
nections between agents while may erroneously sever the information connection. Spatial-decouple
partially connected communication could further ﬂexibly prune irrelevant connections per-location
and can substantially reduce the overall network complexity.
Spatial conﬁdence-aware message fusion. Fig. 11 presents the detail about the spatial conﬁdence-
aware message fusion module. Given the received messages{P(k)
j→i,j ∈N i}, each agenti attentively
augments the features with the received messages at each location. And the request map R(k)
j in
the received message is ﬁrstly decoded to the conﬁdence map C(k)
j via a point-wise minus. Then
the per-location multi-head attention are separately operated at each location in parallel, it takes the
features and the corresponding conﬁdence scores as input, and outputs the augmented features.
Sensor positional encoding. Sensor positional encoding is conditioned on the physical distance
between the known sensor coordinates and each BEV gird’s coordinate in the 3D physic space. It is
introduced to provide spatial prior, as the smaller the sensing distance is, the clear the observation
would be. Mathematically, similar to the position encoding in [36], our sensor positional encoding is
given bySPE (dis,2p) =sin(dis/100002p/D),SPE (dis,2p+1) =cos(dis/100002p/D) wheredis is
the physical distance,p is the dimension,D is the total channel dimension of the BEV feature map,
sin andcos denote the sine and cosine functions.
7.5 Detailed information about experimental settings
Implementation details. For camera-only 3D object detection task on OPV2V , we implement the
detector following CADDN [31]. The model is trained 100 epoch with initial learning rate of 1e-3,
and decay by 0.1 at epoch 80. For LiDAR-based 3D object detection task, our detector follows
MotionNet [33]. We train 120 epoch with learning rate 1e-3. For the camera-only 3D object detection
task on CoPerception-UA Vs, our detector follows the CenterNet [28] with DLA-34 [37] backbone.
The model is trained 140 epoch with learning rate 5e-4.
17
Table 3: Overall performance on CoPerception-UA Vs, OPV2V , V2X-Sim and DAIR-V2X. Comm
denotes the communication volume calculated with Equation (5).
Dataset CoPerception-UA Vs OPV2V V2X-Sim1.0 DAIR-V2X
Method/Metric Comm AP@0.50/0.70 Comm AP@0.50/0.70 Comm AP@0.50 Comm AP@0.50/0.70
No Collaboration 0.00 57.67/29.52 0.00 22.65/9.09 0.00 45.80 0.00 50.03/43.57
Late Fusion 15.77 53.12/37.88 11.87 8.24/3.84 8.83 46.70 11.45 53.12/37.88
When2com 28.37 61.63/33.55 22.28 19.69/8.29 20.00 46.70 22.62 51.12/36.17
V2VNet 29.95 59.82/33.14 23.87 37.47/14.67 21.58 55.30 24.21 56.01/42.25
V2X-ViT 28.37 59.12/41.57 22.28 39.82/16.43 20.00 57.30 22.62 54.26/43.35
DiscoNet 28.37 59.74/29.71 22.28 36.00/12.50 20.00 58.00 22.62 54.29/44.88
Where2comm
11.76 60.19/34.94 5.67 40.11/15.36 6.70 47.60 11.40 50.98/39.11
14.27 60.23/34.93 15.49 42.15/16.09 8.29 49.10 15.58 51.01/39.10
15.73 61.30/35.29 16.13 43.37/16.84 9.52 50.60 17.03 53.53/40.70
17.96 63.04/36.10 17.04 44.07/17.15 10.41 51.80 17.53 55.84/42.44
19.04 63.94/37.16 17.86 44.68/17.77 11.10 54.20 18.19 58.46/44.46
21.62 65.10/38.98 18.43 45.23/18.02 12.27 56.60 20.56 63.54/48.78
23.33 65.32/39.25 18.92 46.04/18.23 12.80 57.00 21.78 63.76/48.94
25.31 65.46/39.27 18.92 46.04/18.23 13.98 58.90 22.35 63.71/48.89
28.48 65.71/39.38 22.71 47.14/19.07 20.00 59.10 22.62 63.71/48.93
Figure 12: Where2comm achieves con-
sistently superior performance-bandwidth
trade-off on V2X-Sim2.0 [9].
Table 4: Overall performance on V2X-Sim2.0 [9]. Comm
denotes the communication volume calculated with Equa-
tion( 5). Metric AP@(0.50/0.70) is used.
Method/Metric Comm AP@0.50/0.70 Method Comm AP@0.50/0.70
No Collaboration 0.00 65.93/51.79
Where
2comm
13.84 75.72/65.13
Late Fusion 14.84 72.33/62.12 17.47 79.14/67.05
When2com 26.04 62.15/49.42 19.84 81.69/70.79
V2VNet 27.62 80.80/71.22 21.98 81.94/72.10
V2X-ViT 26.04 78.73/63.17 24.13 82.99/73.05
DiscoNet 26.04 69.73/55.12 25.93 83.77/74.09
Inference strategy in multi-round setting. For the single-round communication, all the communi-
cation budget are used in this broadcast communication round. For the two-round communication,
a small bandwidth (about 20%) is allocated to activate the collaboration; for the next round, the
remained relatively large (about 80%) bandwidth is allocated to transmit the targeted information to
meet agents’ request. For more than two rounds communication setting, we strategically allocate
communication budget across multiple communication rounds. For the initial broadcast round, a
small bandwidth (about 20%) is allocated to activate the collaboration; for the next round, a relatively
large (about 60%) bandwidth is allocated to transmit the targeted information to meet agents’ request;
then, the bandwidth is gradually reduced, accounting for the communication degradation with the
increasing rounds.
Communication volume. Our communication volume is the same as DiscoNet [ 2], the only dif-
ference is that our log base is 2, while it is 10, so our number is about 3.32 times theirs. The
base 2 is chosen to align with the metric bit/byte, this is, communication volume counts the mes-
sage size by byte in log scale with base 2. Mathematically for the selected sparse feature map
Z(k)
i→j = M(k)
i→j⊙F (k)
i ∈ RH×W×D, the communication volume is
log2
(
|M(k)
i→j|× D× 32/8
)
, (5)
where|·| denotes the L0 norm counting the non-zero elements in the binary selection matrix, this
is, the total spatial girds need to be transmitted, and for each feature point D denotes the channel
dimension, 32 is multiplied as ﬂoat32 data type is used to represent each number, 8 is divided as the
metric byte is used.
7.6 Benchmarks
We conduct extensive experiments on all the available collaborative perception benchmarks. Tab. 3
presents the overall performance on the four datasets, CoPerception-UA Vs, OPV2V [ 10], V2X-
18
(a) C(0)
1
 (b) M(0)
1→2
 (c) W(0)
1→1
 (d) ˆO(0)
1
(e) R(0)
2
 (f) Z (0)
2→1
 (g) W(0)
2→1
 (h) ˆO(1)
1
Figure 13: Visualization of collaboration between Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 on OPV2V dataset,
including spatial conﬁdence map (C(0)
1 ), selection matrix (M(0)
1→2), message ({R(0)
2 ,Z(0)
2→1}) in the
communication module, attention weight in the fusion module ( W(0)
1→1,W(0)
2→1), and Vehicle 1’s
detection results before (ˆO(0)
1 ) and after (ˆO(1)
1 ) collaboration. Green and red boxes denote ground-
truth and detection, respectively. The objects occluded can be detected through transmitting spatially
sparse, yet perceptually critical message.
(a) X1 in BEV
 (b) C(0)
1
 (c) M(0)
1→2
 (d) W(0)
1→1
 (e) ˆO(0)
1
(f) X2 in BEV
 (g) R(0)
2
 (h) Z (0)
2→1
 (i) W(0)
2→1
 (j) ˆO(1)
1
Figure 14: Visualization of collaboration between Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 on V2X-Sim dataset,
including spatial conﬁdence map ( C(0)
1 ), selection matrix ( M(0)
1→2), message ({R(0)
2 ,Z(0)
2→1}) in
the communication module, attention weight in the fusion module (W(0)
1→1,W(0)
2→1), and Drone 1’s
detection results before (ˆO(0)
1 ) and after (ˆO(1)
1 ) collaboration. Green and red boxes denote ground-
truth and detection, respectively. The objects occluded by a tall building can be detected through
transmitting spatially sparse, yet perceptually critical message.
Sim1.0 [2] and DAIR-V2X [11]. And we further benchmark the updated V2X-Sim2.0 [9] in Fig. 12
and Tab. 4. For this LiDAR-based 3D object detection task, our detector follows PointPillar [35]. We
see that where2comm consistently achieves signiﬁcant improvements over previous methods on all
the benchmarks.
7.7 Visualization
Visualization of collaboration in OPV2V and V2X-Sim. Fig. 13 and Fig. 14 illustrates
how Where2comm is empowered by the proposed spatial conﬁdence map on OPV2V and V2X-
Sim dataset. In the scene, with Vehicle 2’s help, Vehicle 1 is able to detect the missed objects in the
19
CoP-UAVV2X-SimOPV2V
(a) No Collaboration
 (b) When2com
 (c) DiscoNet
 (d) Where2comm
Figure 15: Where2comm qualitatively outperforms the state-of-the-art methods in CoPerception-
UA Vs, V2X-Sim and OPV2V datasets. Green and red boxes denote ground-truth and detection,
respectively.
(a) 2-rounds communication.
 (b) 3-rounds communication.
Figure 16: Bandwidth allocation ablation study in multi-round communication. (a-b) shows the
perception performance and communication bandwidth trade-offs for 2- and 3-round communi-
cation using different bandwidth allocation strategies on the OPV2V dataset. The legend shows
the bandwidth ratio from the initial communication round to the entire communication round. Al-
locating more bandwidth in the second and subsequent communication rounds achieves a better
performance-bandwidth trade-off than allocating all bandwidth in the initial communication round.
single view. Fig. 13 (a-d) shows Vehicle 1’s spatial conﬁdence map, binary selection matrix, ego
attention weight, and the detection results by its own observation. Fig. 13 (e-f) shows Vehicle 2’s
message sent to Drone 1, including the request map (opposite of conﬁdence map) and the sparse
feature map, achieving efﬁcient communication. Fig. 13 (g) shows the attention weight for Vehicle 1
to fuse Vehicle 2’s messages, which is sparse, yet highlights the objects’ positions. Fig. 13 (d) and
(h) compares the detection results before and after the collaboration with Vehicle 2. We see that the
proposed spatial conﬁdence map contributes to spatially sparse, yet perceptually critical message,
which effectively helps Vehicle 1 detect occluded objects.
Visualization of detection results. Fig. 15 shows that Where2comm qualitatively outperforms the
state-of-the-art methods in CoPerception-UA Vs, V2X-Sim and OPV2V datasets.
7.8 Ablation on bandwidth allocation
Fig. 16 shows the bandwidth allocation ablation study in multi-round communication setting. We see
that allocating more bandwidth in the second and subsequent communication rounds achieves a better
20
Figure 17: As an important component of the UA V swarm, collaborative perception could fundamen-
tally resolve various reception-ﬁeld restrictions in the traditional single-agent perception.
performance-bandwidth trade-off than allocating all bandwidth in the initial communication round,
and the gain is stable for different bandwidth allocation strategies. The reason is that multi-round
communication employs a request map in the second and subsequent communication rounds to
denote the spatial area where each agent needs more information, which enables more targeted and
efﬁcient communication.
7.9 Discussion on the realistic limitations
There are many challenges in a collaborative perception system. In this work, we focus on the biggest
challenge in current collaborative perception systems; that is, the trade-off between communication
bandwidth and perception performance. This challenge has been actively addressed in previous
works [13, 12, 1, 2]. Because collaborative perception is enabled and also severely limited by the
communication capacity, which is critically reﬂected in the highly dynamic and limited bandwidth
in real-world communication systems. Where2comm ﬂexibly adapts to various communication
bandwidths, achieving superior performance-bandwidth trade-off.
Here we further discuss other realistic limitations, assess the robustness of our system and future
improvements to be done.
• For other realistic communication issues such as latency, where2comm communicates strategically
when necessary, rather than all the time or everywhere, to reduce the possibility of encountering
communication problems. In addition, a prediction module could be integrated to estimate the missed
or delayed frames according to the historically received frames. And by focusing on the informative
spatial regions, where2comm can reduce the estimation difﬁculty.
• For the time synchronisation issue, by using the powerful transformer architecture-based fusion
module, where2comm can attentively augment the features with the received asynchronous features
from other agents. In addition, where2comm can introduce positional encoding conditioned on
delay time and easily extend to global multi-head attention to further reduce the effects of time
synchronization.
• For the noisy localization issue, where2comm exchanges the intermediate features among agents,
which has a relatively low spatial resolution, thus is relatively robust to noisy pose. In addition,
where2comm can easily extend to a deformable transformer architecture like [38] to further alleviate
the feature distortion caused by the noisy localization.
• For the attack issue, by focusing on speciﬁc spatial regions and attentively fusing the received
features from other agents, where2comm is relatively less likely to be attacked.
• For the data availability, where2comm works on both RGB and point cloud modalities, and is
sensor friendly, so it can be deployed on cheap camera sensors and lidar sensors.
21
Figure 18: Two types of UA V swarm formation. The left shows the discipline formation mode, where
the swarm keeps a static array and the right shows the dynamic formation mode, where each UA V
navigates independently in the scene.
7.10 CoPerception-UA Vs dataset details
CoPerception-UA Vs dataset collects data from drones, see Fig. 17. As the rapid development of an
unmanned aerial vehicle (UA V) signiﬁcantly enhances human’s ability to perceive the world from an
aerial perspective. UA V-based systems have been widely used in numerous applications, including
search and rescue, security and surveillance, photography, geographical mapping, as well as trafﬁc
monitoring. Through collaboration, UA V swarm can further distribute multiple tasks and achieve
higher ﬂexibility, stronger robustness, and a larger perception range, leading to signiﬁcant advantages
in harsh and complex environments. Unfortunately, collaborative perception mainly focuses on
the vehicles and ignores the UA V literature. To provide more diverse views and challenging
benchmark for the collaborative perception community, here we present the ﬁrst comprehensive
large-scale collaborative perception dataset for UA V swarm so far.
Since building a dataset in the real world is too expensive and laborious, in this initial version,
we consider a virtual dataset based on the co-simulation of AirSim [ 34] and Carla [ 30], where
AirSim simulates the UA V swarms and Carla simulates the complex background scenes and dynamic
foreground objects. In the simulation, we consider that the UA V swarm is ﬂying over diverse
simulated scenes at various altitudes. Each UA V has a sensing device to collect RGB images, a
computation device to perceive the environment with a perception model, and a communication
device to transmit perception information among UA Vs. In this setting, the UA V swarm is able
to achieve 2D/3D object detection, pixel-wise or bird’s-eye-view (BEV) semantic segmentation
in a collaborative manner. Our dataset consists of 131.9k synchronous images collected from 5
coordinated UA Vs ﬂying at 3 altitudes over 3 simulated towns with 2 types of swarm formation. To
enable the model training and testing, each image is fully annotated with the pixel-wise semantic
segmentation labels, 2D bounding boxes of vehicles, as well as 3D bounding boxes on the ground
and the semantic mask from BEV view. This benchmark can enable the evaluation of collaborative
perception methods on the important perception tasks: 2D/3D/BEV object detection and semantic
segmentation. The dataset details as unfolded as follows.
Data collection. Our proposed dataset is collected by the co-simulation of CARLA [ 30] and
AirSim[34] (both under MIT license). We use CARLA to generate complex simulation scenes and
trafﬁc ﬂow; and use AirSim to simulate UA V swarm ﬂying in the scene. The ﬂight route of UA Vs is
controlled by AirSim and sample data are collected randomly at about 4-second intervals.
Map creation. The simulation scenes, including the road layout, static objects, and trafﬁc ﬂow,
are created based on CARLA [30] simulation. We take three open-source maps (town4 to town6)
provided by CARLA as the basic road layouts, which are the three largest maps in scale. To increase
the complexity and diversity of the scenes and make the perception tasks more challenging, we
customize the original maps, adding and replacing various buildings, vegetation, roadblocks, barriers,
and other static objects with various assets provided by CARLA.
22
Figure 19: Data and annotations of one sample. From top to bottom: RGB image, image with 3D
bounding boxes, image with semantic labels, and BEV map with semantic labels. From left to right
are from different cameras equipped on four UA Vs.
Trafﬁc ﬂow creation. Moving vehicles in the scene are managed through CARLA. Hundreds of
vehicles are spawned in each scene by script spawn_npc.py provided by CARLA. The initial location
and motion trajectory of each vehicle is determined by the map’s road layout.
Sensor setup. Each UA V is equipped with 5 RGB cameras in 5 directions and 5 semantic cameras
collecting semantic ground truth for RGB cameras. The cameras include a bird’s eye view camera
and four cameras facing forward, backward, right, and left with a pitch degree of−45◦. Each camera
has an FoV of 90◦ and the resolution is 800× 450. On each UA V , all the cameras are ﬁxed and their
internal relative position and rotation degree are invariable. The translation (x, y, z) and rotation
(w, x, y, z in quaternion) of each camera in both global and ego coordinates are recorded during
data collection. With such a sensor setting, a UA V at the height of40m can mostly cover an area of
200m× 200m.
Formation ﬂying. The UA V swarm moves and executes tasks in the three-dimensional space, where
the situation could be much more complex than those of vehicles or roadside units. In our proposed
dataset, we take into consideration two main factors that may affect the perception and collaboration
patterns of UA V swarms: ﬂight formation and altitude. Each UA V swarm consists of 5 UA Vs. We
arrange two types of formation modes for a UA V swarm: discipline mode, where all 5 UA Vs keeps a
consistent and relatively static array, and dynamic mode, where each UA V navigates independently in
the scene; see Fig. 18. The former simulates the situation where the swarm of UA Vs is executing a
same speciﬁc task such as exploring an unknown area, search and rescue; while the latter simulates
the monitoring and patrolling tasks in the city.
Fully-annotated data are provided in our proposed dataset, including synchronous images with
pixel-wise semantic labels, 2D & 3D bounding boxes of vehicles, and BEV semantic map; see 19.
Camera data. We collect synchronous images from all cameras on 5 UA Vs, which is 25 images in
a sample. Camera intrinsics and extrinsics in global coordinate are provided to support coordinate
transformation across various UA Vs. In total, 123.8K images are collected for the discipline swarm
mode and 8.1K for the dynamic swarm mode.
Bounding boxes. During data collection, 3D bounding boxes of vehicles are recorded at the same
moment with images, including location (x, y, z), rotation (w, x, y, z in quaternion) in the global
coordinate and their length, width and height. The location (x, y, z) is the center of the bounding box.
23
Then we provide 2D bounding boxes by projecting the 3D bounding boxes to the image perspective
plane of each camera, resulting in 1.94M 3D bounding boxes and 3.6M 2D bounding boxes in total.
Data usage. In total, CoPerception-UA Vs has 131.9K aerial images and 1.94M 3D boxes. We
randomly split the samples into train/validation/test, resulting 91,175/19,500/20,250 images, and
1,316,536/303,888/319,576 3D bounding boxes. The dataset is organized in a similar way with
the widely-used autonomous driving dataset, nuScenes [ 39]; so it can be used directly with the
well-established nuScenes-devkit.
24