Who2com: Collaborative Perception via Learnable Handshake
Communication
Yen-Cheng Liu, Junjiao Tian, Chih-Yao Ma, Nathan Glaser, Chia-Wen Kuo and Zsolt Kira
Georgia Institute of Technology
{ycliu,jtian73,cyma,nglaser3,albert.cwkuo,zkira}@gatech.edu
Abstract— In this paper, we propose the problem of col-
laborative perception , where robots can combine their local
observations with those of neighboring agents in a learnable
way to improve accuracy on a perception task. Unlike existing
work in robotics and multi-agent reinforcement learning, we
formulate the problem as one where learned information must
be shared across a set of agents in a bandwidth-sensitive
manner to optimize for scene understanding tasks such as
semantic segmentation. Inspired by networking communication
protocols, we propose a multi-stage handshake communication
mechanism where the neural network can learn to compress
relevant information needed for each stage. Speciﬁcally, a target
agent with degraded sensor data sends a compressed request,
the other agents respond with matching scores, and the target
agent determines who to connect with (i.e., receive information
from). We additionally develop the AirSim-CP dataset and
metrics based on the AirSim simulator where a group of aerial
robots perceive diverse landscapes, such as roads, grasslands,
buildings, etc. We show that for the semantic segmentation task,
our handshake communication method signiﬁcantly improves
accuracy by approximately 20% over decentralized baselines,
and is comparable to centralized ones using a quarter of the
bandwidth.
I. I NTRODUCTION
A great deal of progress has been made in single-agent
scene understanding using deep neural networks [40, 12, 4].
However, as these methods become ubiquitous and larger
numbers of robots are deployed in the world, it becomes
beneﬁcial for them to share knowledge via communication.
For example, knowledge sharing across a ﬂeet of self-driving
cars could alleviate a number of challenges such as occlusion
and sensor degradations or failures.
In this paper, we propose the problem of collaborative per-
ception, where robots can combine their local observations
with those of neighboring agents to improve accuracy in a
perception task, such as semantic segmentation [23, 3]. This
can result in signiﬁcant improvements, for example when
the receiving agent’s sensors are occluded or degraded (see
Figure 1). We therefore formulate a problem where a de-
graded agent can communicate with other agents to improve
its perceptual abilities. Unlike past methods that focus on
multi-robot localization and mapping [6, 32], we develop
agents that learn what to communicate in a manner that
is amenable to end-to-end deep learning, which dominates
scene understanding. In addition, different from multi-agent
reinforcement learning [36, 2, 10, 29, 17, 30, 9], we seek to
do so under bandwidth constraints. We therefore propose to
learn who to communicate with in order to reduce bandwidth
Fig. 1: Illustration of collaborative perception. Our collab-
orative perception task is to improve the perception ability
of a degraded agent using information from other agents in
a bandwidth-limited way.
requirements while improving accuracy. Such a method is
effective for standard observation problems which have the
sub-modularity property, i.e., that adding more observation
agents achieves diminishing returns [20]. Similar advantages
have also been shown using rate distortion theory [8].
In order to investigate the inherent trade-off between
accuracy and bandwidth, especially in a manner that scales
in a bounded way with respect to the number of agents,
we propose a three-stage communication mechanism inspired
by three-way handshaking in the regime of communication
networking [21]. The three steps of our method are: 1)
request: the degraded agent broadcasts a compressed request
conditioned on its visual observation, 2) match: the other
agents compute a learned matching score between their own
visual observations and the received request, and 3) connect:
the degraded agent selects one of the agents to communi-
cate with and further improve its own prediction accuracy
in downstream perception tasks. The entire mechanism is
trained in an end-to-end manner, using only supervision for
the down-stream task (e.g., semantic segmentation). We show
that this communication mechanism effectively decouples
the request, score, and actual transmitted value to allow
different (i.e., asymmetric) sizes during this communication.
Our experiments demonstrate that this results in signiﬁcant
bandwidth savings when compared to centralized baselines
and accuracy gains over uniform compression across agents.
In order to investigate the properties of the resulting
arXiv:2003.09575v1  [cs.CV]  21 Mar 2020
Request
Message
ScoreScore Score
Match Connect
data
Who to communicate with?
? ? ?
Fig. 2: The concept of three-stage handshake communication. Our model consists of three major steps to establish the
connection with the selected agent. Request: the degraded agent ﬁrst broadcasts the compressed request message to other
agents. Match: the normal agents compute matching scores based on the individual observations and the received request
message. Connect: after returning all scores back to the target degraded agent, it connects to one of the normal agents with
the highest matching score and obtains high-bandwidth data ( i.e., feature maps for the semantic segmentation task) from it.
method, we develop the AirSim-CP dataset and metrics
using the AirSim simulator [34], where a group of aerial
robots ﬂy over a map with diverse landscapes, such as
roads, grasslands, buildings, lakes, etc. We vary a number
of elements across the scenarios, including their trajectories,
partial or complete overlap between the ﬁelds of view of
the target and other agents, and with noisy or accurate pose
information available for cross-view geometric warping. We
quantitatively show that our proposed method is able to
signiﬁcantly improve accuracy by approximately 20% over
decentralized baselines, and is comparable to centralized
ones using a quarter of the bandwidth.
We highlight the contributions of this paper as follows:
• We propose a new problem in the intersection of
multi-agent systems, perception, communication, and
learning. Compared with prior works on learning to
communicate, we are the ﬁrst to tackle the problem of
learning to communicate with bandwidth constraints to
the best of our knowledge.
• Different from other multi-agent systems [14, 17], our
collected dataset, AirSim-CP, provides high-resolution
and photo-realistic images for better evaluating multi-
agent perception tasks with communication.
• We propose an end-to-end communication framework
trained without supervision indicating the ground-truth
agent for communication, and shows superior accuracy
to decentralized baselines and comparably to strong
centralized ones with a fraction of the bandwidth.
II. R ELATED WORK
Communication in multi-agent environments is a founda-
tion of both collaborative perception and decision-making.
This topic has been studied extensively in the regime of
Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning (MARL) [22, 33, 28].
Early attempts utilized a pre-deﬁned communication protocol
to propagate the information across agents [37, 39, 27], while
dynamics of environments and a varied number of agents
gave rise to the development of learnable mulit-agent com-
munication [36, 11, 2, 14, 10, 29, 17, 35, 18, 7, 30, 9, 15, 19].
Existing works on MARL demonstrated the effectiveness of
communication for various tasks, applying the models on
simplistic 2D grid environments where the observation of
each agent is low-dimensional. As noted in Jain et al. [15],
studying collaboration in simplistic environments does not
permit study of the interplay between perception and com-
munication. Thus, in this work, we examine our framework
in a more complicated and photorealistic environment.
Among existing works on learning to communicate, the
most relevant framework to our work is TarMac [7], where
the targeted communication is deﬁned as the transmitted
message determined by both the sender and receiver agents.
However, during the communication, both message and data
are broadcast to all of the other agents, hence not taking
bandwidth usage into account. On the other hand, other
recent work proposed to construct the communication group
based on either pre-deﬁned rules [17, 16] or a uniﬁed
communication network [35, 36, 14, 29, 35, 7]. In this
way, the bandwidth usage during communication increases
as the number of agents scales up. In contrast, our framework
aims to minimize the bandwidth consumption yet maintain
performance for the perception task by selecting which
agent(s) to communicate with.
III. P ROPOSED METHOD
A. Problem Deﬁnition and Motivation
In our proposed collaborative perception task, an envi-
ronment consists of N agents with their own observations
X ={xi}i=1,...,N, while the observation of the target agent
˜x j, j∈{ 1, ...,N} is degraded. The goal of the target agent
is to integrate information received from other agents to
derive the prediction for its own local observation. Real-
istically, communication mechanisms often have bandwidth
limitations, preventing the transmission of a large quantity
of information during communication. Thus, our goal is to
derive a distributed and information-fusing framework which
is able to (1) maximize the prediction accuracy of the down-
stream perception tasks for the target agent and (2) minimize
the bandwidth used during transmission, as illustrated in
Figure 1. We propose a communication framework that can
Msg
Key
Key
Key
Match
Match
Match
DegradedNormalNormalNormal
Score
Score
Score
SelectionRequest
Connect
Transmission
Fig. 3: Our proposed model and communication steps. The degraded agent ﬁrst computes a low-dimensional vector
as the request message and broadcasts it to other normal agents, and each normal agent then generates a matching score
conditioned on the request message. Finally, the degraded agent accesses the requested information from one of the agents
during inference (and from all agents during training). The proposed method is trained end-to-end and signiﬁcantly improves
accuracy over decentralized baselines while minimizing bandwidth usage over centralized ones.
be generalized to many perception tasks, and in this paper
we consider semantic segmentation as one instantiation to
evaluate the framework.
B. Communication via Three-Stage Handshake
Rather than broadcasting all information within the entire
network in a brute-force manner, an efﬁcient way of minimiz-
ing the bandwidth usage while maintaining performance is to
select which agent to communicates with. Toward this end,
inspired by related work in communication networks [21],
we introduce a three-stage handshake communication mech-
anism shown in Figure 2. Such a selection is motivated
by works on rate distortion theory [8] and sub-modularity
of multiple observations [20]. Our empirical experimental
results also show that this approach yields a better trade-
off between bandwidth usage and performance, compared to
uniform compression of all information from the agents.
Our communication mechanism consists of three major
steps: request, match, and connect. Speciﬁcally, the de-
graded agent ﬁrst broadcasts its request message, µ j∈ Rm,
to the neighboring normal agents, and the normal agents
compute a matching score, s ji, between their keys, κi∈ Rk,
and the request message. Once the normal agents return their
matching scores back to the degraded agent, the degraded
agent further selects the best n agents to connect with
(i.e., receive information from) according to these matching
scores1. The complete communication steps are illustrated
in Figure 3. In each step, information can be compressed by
each agent i through a key generator Gi
k, a message generator
Gi
m, an image encoder Ei, and an task decoder Di. Note
that this approach effectively decouples the various stages,
allowing for different compression rates for the message,
keys, and values. This signiﬁcantly beneﬁts the trade-off
between bandwidth and accuracy. We now detail the steps:
Request - The degraded agent j ﬁrst compresses its
1Note that in this paper we select the top n = 1, but the method can be
generalized to top- n selection.
observation ˜x j to a low-dimensional message µ j:
µ j = G j
m( ˜x j; θm)∈ Rm, (1)
where G j
m is a message generator parameterized by θm. The
propagated message µ j compresses important information
from the local observation of the degraded agent j.
Match - In the match step, each of other agents derives
the matching score s ji between the received request message
µ j from the degraded agent and the key κi generated from
its own observations,
s ji = Φ(µ j,κi), κi = Gi
k(xi; θk)∈ Rk, (2)
where Φ(·,·) represents the matching function of two vectors
and Gi
k denotes a key generator parameterized by θk. We
use the general attention mechanism [25] as our matching
function:
General: Φ =µT
jWaκi, (3)
whereWa is a learnable parameter. We also compare it with
two other attention mechanisms: Scale Dot-Product Φ =
µT
jκi/√dn [38] and Additive Φ = W T
a tanh(Wkκi +
Wmµ j) [1], whereWk,Wm denote parameters to be learned
and dn denotes the dimension of the message and keys.
Note that only the general and additive functions allow
for different key and message sizes. The scale dot-product
function requires identical message-key size. Empirically, we
ﬁnd that general attention achieve the best performance in
our experiments and hence use it unless otherwise speciﬁed.
Note that we assume equal cost links between agents, though
our models can further support per-link costs (unlike the
baseline methods). We leave this for future work.
Connect - In the connect step, the selected ˆi-th agent
transmits the requested information ( e.g., a feature map for
semantic segmentation) fˆi to the degraded agent. With the
integrated information, the target degraded agent makes a
ﬁnal prediction ˜y j as follows:
˜y j = D j([ ˜f j;fˆi]; θd), (4)
where fˆi = Ei(xˆi; θe)∈ Rd f×d f×dc is the feature map from
the local observation of normal agent ˆi, d f ,dc are the spatial
dimension and number of channels of the feature maps
respectively, ˜f j = E j(˜x j; θe) is the feature map from the
noisy observation of the degraded agent, and [· ;·] is the
concatenation operator along the channel dimension. θe and
θd are the parameters in the task encoder and decoder.
C. Learning to Communicate with Weak Supervision
Centralized training with decentralized execution. Our
learning strategy is inspired by the concept of centralized
training with decentralized execution [24]. During training
our target agent can access the observations of all other
agents. On the other hand, during inference the target agent
is required to perform in a bandwidth-limited manner by only
accessing information from the selected agent(s).
Speciﬁcally, during training, the task decoder uses the sum
of observations from all normal agents weighted by their
corresponding matching scores and further computes the ﬁnal
prediction akin to Eq. 4 during inference:
˜y j = D j([ ˜f j;fsum]; θd), fsum =
N
∑
i=1
α j,ifi, (5)
where α j,i is ith element of α j = ρ(
[
s j1; ...;s jN
]
)∈ RN
and ρ is a softmax operation. The most straightforward
decentralized execution method is simply adopting argmax
selection, i.e., connecting only to the agent with the highest
computed matching score:
ˆi = argmax
i
s ji. (6)
However, argmax selection is non-differential during train-
ing. We address this issue by simply applying the softmax
operator in the training stage and argmax operator in the
inference stage. Empirically, we ﬁnd that this simple method
achieves similar results compared to other more complex
schemes, e.g., sparsemax [26]. Note also that this can be
generalized to top- n selection as well.
Training objective. Learning our model does not require
supervision of ground truth labels indicating the best agent
to communicate with. Therefore, the only supervision for our
model comes from the ground truth annotation at the target
view ( e.g., segmentation masks). The objective function of
our model, which is trained end-to-end, can thus be deﬁned
as L = H(y j, ˜y j), where H is the cross-entropy loss, and y j
denotes the ground truth labels of the target agent’s view.
IV. E XPERIMENTAL RESULTS
A. AirSim-CP Dataset
Dataset. Our AirSim-CP dataset is built upond the AirSim
simulator [34], where a group of ﬁve drones ﬂy over a map
with diverse landscapes, such as roads, grasslands, buildings,
lakes, etc. Currently, in our AirSim-CP dataset, we use
semantic segmentation as the downstream task to benchmark
methods for the collaborative perception problem. For each
drone, RGB images, depth images, and poses are recorded.
Fig. 4: Illustration of our experimental cases.
We also provide the semantic segmentation mask of one of
agents.
B. Proposed Experimental Settings.
As illustrated in Figure 4, in order to obtain perceptual data
under realistic trajectories, the drones perform pre-speciﬁed
tasks of waypoint following and multi-agent random ex-
ploration. We then consider four experimental settings: (1)
hidden target view (waypoint following trajectories), (2-3)
accurate or inaccurate pose (waypoint following trajectories),
and (4) accurate pose (random exploration trajectories). We
collect approximately 10-20k images per setting, with a
roughly 60%/20%/20% train/val/test split. In all cases, there
is a degraded target agent. We perturb the target agent’s
view by applying a Gaussian blur ﬁlter with random size
(from 1 to 100) and Gaussian noise. When speciﬁed, depth
and pose information is used to warp the normal agents’
views to the target view. In terms of the optimization, we
use ResNet18 [13] as our feature backbone and train it for
200k iterations with Adam optimizer with learning rate 10−5.
Hidden Target View with Multi-agent Waypoint Fol-
lowing. The agents are asked to navigate between waypoints
but when performing the semantic segmentation task, rather
than the normal agents being all of the neighboring agents,
we replace one of the normal agent with an un-degraded
version of the target view. This task tests whether the baseline
and the proposed method can help the target agent ﬁnd the
hidden ground-truth target view in one of the neighboring
agents. This experiment thus can be regarded as a sanity
check on communication. Note that we do not use any
3D information to warp normal views to the target view.
The motivation for this case is to remove the confound
of geometric warping and image misalignments (which is
important for the semantic segmentation task [31]) from the
study of the collaborative perception task. Our focus is to
make sure that communication can be effective and accurate
in a bandwidth-limited manner. Hence, we can directly assess
only communication effectiveness from this case.
Accurate Pose with Multi-agent Waypoint Following.
Similar to the previous setting, the ﬁve drones are per-
forming waypoint following jointly. Differently, the ﬁeld-
of-view (FOV) of the target agent only partially overlaps
with some subset of the normal agents. This case is designed
to test whether the proposed method can select the normal
agent with partially overlapping FOVs, in order to aid the
downstream perception task. In order to maintain the image
alignment for a better segmentation prediction, we use 3D
information from the depth maps of each normal agent’s view
and an accurate relative pose transformation to the target
view to warp the pixels of the normal agent’s observations
to the target’s view. Note that the depth maps do not have to
be transmitted (warping is done locally on each agent) but
we include the transmission of the target’s pose to the other
agents in the bandwidth used, although it is minimal.
Inaccurate Pose with Multi-agent Waypoint Following.
To further make our experimental setting more realistic, we
add noise in the agents’ positions. This results in warped
images that are not well-aligned with the target view.
Accurate Pose with Multi-agent Random Exploration.
We also investigate collaborative perception during multi-
agent random exploration, where agents approach a target
location, disperse, and wander. As the agents explore the en-
vironment individually, the relative positions and overlapping
ﬁelds-of-view of agents change frequently.
C. Baselines
We consider the following methods for comparison:
• Single normal (upper bound) and Single degraded
(lower bound) : the models are trained with single
non-degraded and degraded images respectively for the
target agent.
• CatAll (centralized) : the model uses the concatenation
of all features from both degraded and normal agents
as input for semantic segmentation.
• Attention (centralized) : the Attention mechanism
weights and sums up feature maps instead of the
concatenation of the CatAll method.
• Compression (centralized): the compression model ap-
plies two additional convolutional layers and performs
uniform compression of all observations at rate 25%,
with concatenation used for combining them. Note that
we can certainly replace our image encoder with more
sophisticated compression encoders to further improve
the compression rate [5].
• Random selection (distributed) : instead of learning to
select which agent to communicate with, here the fea-
ture map from a random normal agent is selected.
• Ours (distributed): we denote our proposed method as
ours with message ( ours w/ msg ), and another variant
where the message requestµ j is set to a constant vector
with ones to check whether the message request is
essential. It is worth noting that we do not use any label
indicating the best agent during the training.
Both CatAll and Attention require all feature maps from nor-
mal agents to be sent to the degraded agent. The bandwidth
of the centralized baselines scales linearly with the number
of agents in the system, while Random selection and ours
only requires a single image feature map to be transmitted.
D. Evaluation metrics.
In order to evaluate and analyze the effectiveness of mod-
els, we use 1) overall accuracy to measure the performance
of semantic segmentation [23] and 2) Kbytes per frame
(kbpf) to measure the bandwidth usage (BW) to examine the
ability of communication and selection. In addition, to better
benchmark the performances on the collaborative perception
task under limited bandwidth, we introduce the Bandwidth-
Improvement Score (BIS) deﬁned as:
BIS = δ− ¯δ
( ˆδ− ¯δ )ω
, (7)
where δ is the overall accuracy of the examined method, ¯δ is
the overall accuracy of the single degraded model (i.e., lower
bound on overall accuracy), ˆδ is the overall accuracy of the
single normal model ( i.e., upper bound on overall accuracy),
and ω is the bandwidth usage (in Mbytes per frame) of
the examined method. The BIS score is deﬁned as a ratio
of relative improvement in overall accuracy over bandwidth
usage. Smaller bandwidth usage and larger improvements in
overall accuracy lead to higher scores.
V. R ESULTS AND ABLATION STUDIES
In this section, we compare our proposed method with
baselines on the four cases (Sec. IV-B) as shown in Table I.
Hidden Target View with Multi-agent Waypoint Fol-
lowing. As mentioned, geometric warping is not applied for
this case. This results in better evaluation of communication,
since the warping noise for the target view is removed and
non-warped normal images make the selection more difﬁcult.
Several observations can be made from this case. First, as
the centralized baselines are able to access all observations
from different views, it should be the upper bounds of all
distributed methods including our proposed models. How-
ever, we ﬁnd that our model improves overall accuracy by a
relative 16.51% with respect to CatAll with only one quarter
bandwidth usage. This shows that simply concatenating all
of the information cannot guarantee that the network will
combine it meaningfully and bandwidth is likely to be
wasted. Second, in order to predict pixel-wise outputs and
accurately predict ﬁne-grained classes, scene understanding
tasks require high-dimensional feature maps during infer-
ence. Using the overly compressed feature map may degrade
the overall accuracy, hence our model with the message can
improve overall accuracy a relative 20 .06% with respect to
the Compression model. Lastly, we also observe that our
model with the message can improve mIoU by a relative
29.49% compared to without the message. This demonstrates
the necessity of the message in the communication.
Accurate and Inaccurate Pose with Multi-agent Way-
point Following. One challenge for these cases is that the
ﬁeld of view between target and normal agents are partially
overlapping. With the forward geometric warping on the
visual observations of the normal agents, we observe that
only one or two agents contain(s) partial information of the
target view. Thus the performances of distributed models
TABLE I: Experimental results on Multi-agent Waypoint Following and Random Exploration.
Waypoint Following Waypoint Following Waypoint Following Random Exploration
(Hidden Target View) (Accurate Pose) (Inaccurate Pose) (Accurate Pose)
BW (kpbf) Overall Acc BIS Overall Acc BIS Overall Acc BIS Overall Acc BIS
Upper bound Single Normal - 88.14 - 88.13 - 89.7 - 89.16 -
Centralized
CatAll 4096 72.58 0.049 80.05 0.17 80.33 0.172 78.74 0.133
Attention 4096.03 69.08 0.004 84.38 0.212 82.79 0.174 81.07 0.159
Compression 1024 70.44 0.085 76.2 0.527 76.93 0.441 73.05 0.277
Distributed
Random Selection 1024 69.16 0.019 64.94 0.082 67.49 0.028 69.58 0.123
Ours w/o msg 1024.03 65.31 -0.179 78.10 0.602 79.34 0.546 80.69 0.621
Ours w/ msg 1028.03 84.57 0.812 80.42 0.691 79.44 0.549 80.97 0.631
Lower bound Single Degraded - 68.79 - 62.88 - 66.84 - 66.85 -
70
75
80
85
90
60
70
80
90
100
1 4 16 64
Overall Acc.(%)
SelectionAcc. (%)
Message Size
MessageSizeAnalysis
Selection Acc. Overall Acc.
70
75
80
85
90
40
60
80
100
4 16 64 256 1024
Overall Acc.(%)
SelectionAcc. (%) 
KeySize
KeySizeAnalysis
Selection Acc. Overall Acc.
(a) (b)
Fig. 5: Ablation study on varying (a) message and (b) key size. We vary the size of key from 4 to 1024 and vary the size
of message from 1 to 64 on Hidden Target View. Note that we use the key with size 8 on the varying message analysis,
while the message with size 1024 is used for key size analysis. Without the message, the model performs the selection
accuracy of 25 .52% and the overall accuracy of 61 .4%, and we use key size of 1024 for (a) and message size of 8 for (b).
drop compared to the previous task. Our models are still able
to achieve similar results compared with centralized methods,
using only a quarter of the bandwidth, and still achieve the
highest BIS among these methods. It is worth noting that
our models with and without the message perform similarly
because the model can rely on cues from warping ( e.g.,
amount of overlap) from the normal agent images, hence
reducing the need for conditioning on the message. Note also
that although the BIS degrades somewhat due to inaccurate
pose, it is still able to signiﬁcantly beat the baselines.
Accurate Pose with Multi-agent Random Exploration.
Although overlapping FOVs and motions of agents change
frequently in this case, we observe that our models still per-
form favorably against other baseline methods. This shows
our models’ robustness in different environments and tasks.
Message and key sizes. To better examine the accuracy
of agent selection, we manually label the ”best” agent of the
testing sets of Hidden Target View and further measure the
selection accuracy and overall accuracy of various models.
When using the general attention, the size of message and
key can be set to different values. We ﬁrst analyze the effect
of message size by varying it from 1 to 64 as shown in
Figure 5a. We observe that a larger message size results in
increased selection accuracy and segmentation quality. Note
that a message size of 4 is sufﬁcient to achieve comparable
performance on both selection and segmentation, after which
the performance plateaus. We also conduct a similar experi-
ment by varying the key size from 4 to 1024, and the same
trend can be observed in Figure 5b. Also, we empirically
found that a small message ( e.g., 8) paired with large key
size (e.g., 1024) can achieve amenable performance. This is
also the sizes of our models for all experiments in Sec. V.
Importantly, the effectiveness of asymmetric sizes is an
interesting ﬁnding as it allows us to use a small size for
the message that is sent to other agents while using larger
sizes for the key used locally by each agent to compute the
scores (and hence does not need to be transmitted). These
results validate this advantage.
VI. C ONCLUSION
In this paper, we formulated the problem of collabo-
rative perception , where agents can combine their local
observations with those of other agents in order to improve
performance on scene understanding tasks. Inspired by the
network communication literature, we propose a handshake
communication mechanism for which the network can learn
compressed representations. Key to our approach is that we
decouple the message, key, and value elements to support
asymmetric compression, resulting in bandwidth savings. We
introduce the AirSim-CP dataset and benchmarking metrics
to evaluate our method, and show that our method is able
to effectively combine information from neighboring agents
to improve accuracy using signiﬁcantly less bandwidth than
centralized approaches.
VII. A CKNOWLEDGEMENT
This work was supported by ONR grant N00014-18-1-
2829.
REFERENCES
[1] Dzmitry Bahdanau, KyungHyun Cho, and Yoshua
Bengio. “Neural machine translation by jointly learn-
ing to align and translation”. In: Proceedings of the
International Conference on Learning Representations
(ICLR). 2015.
[2] Peter Battaglia et al. “Interaction networks for learning
about objects, relations and physics”. In: Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS) . 2016.
[3] Liang-Chieh Chen et al. “Rethinking atrous convo-
lution for semantic image segmentation”. In: arXiv
preprint arXiv:1706.05587 (2017).
[4] Po-Yi Chen et al. “Towards Scene Understand-
ing: Unsupervised Monocular Depth Estimation With
Semantic-Aware Representation”. In: The IEEE Con-
ference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR). June 2019.
[5] Zhengxue Cheng et al. “Learning Image and Video
Compression through Spatial-Temporal Energy Com-
paction”. In: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) .
2019, pp. 10071–10080.
[6] Alexander Cunningham, Manohar Paluri, and Frank
Dellaert. “DDF-SAM: Fully distributed SLAM us-
ing constrained factor graphs”. In: 2010 IEEE/RSJ
International Conference on Intelligent Robots and
Systems. IEEE. 2010, pp. 3025–3030.
[7] Abhishek Das et al. “TarMAC: Targeted Multi-Agent
Communication”. In: Proceedings of the International
Conference on Machine Learning (ICML) . 2019.
[8] Roel Dobbe, David Fridovich-Keil, and Claire Tomlin.
“Fully decentralized policies for multi-agent systems:
An information theoretic approach”. In: Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS) . 2017,
pp. 2941–2950.
[9] Jakob N Foerster et al. “Counterfactual multi-agent
policy gradients”. In: Proceedings of the AAAI Con-
ference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AAAI) . 2018.
[10] Jakob Foerster et al. “Learning to communicate with
deep multi-agent reinforcement learning”. In: Ad-
vances in Neural Information Processing Systems
(NIPS). 2016.
[11] Jakob Foerster et al. “Learning to communicate with
deep multi-agent reinforcement learning”. In: Ad-
vances in Neural Information Processing Systems
(NIPS). 2016.
[12] Cl ´ement Godard, Oisin Mac Aodha, and Gabriel J
Brostow. “Unsupervised monocular depth estimation
with left-right consistency”. In: Proceedings of the
IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition. 2017, pp. 270–279.
[13] Kaiming He et al. “Deep residual learning for image
recognition”. In: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR).
2016.
[14] Yedid Hoshen. “Vain: Attentional multi-agent predic-
tive modeling”. In: Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems (NIPS) . 2017.
[15] Unnat Jain et al. “Two Body Problem: Collaborative
Visual Task Completion”. In:Proceedings of the IEEE
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recogni-
tion (CVPR). 2019.
[16] Jiechuan Jiang, Chen Dun, and Zongqing Lu.
“Graph Convolutional Reinforcement Learning
for Multi-Agent Cooperation”. In: arXiv preprint
arXiv:1810.09202 (2018).
[17] Jiechuan Jiang and Zongqing Lu. “Learning atten-
tional communication for multi-agent cooperation”.
In: Advances in Neural Information Processing Sys-
tems (NIPS). 2018.
[18] Daewoo Kim et al. “Learning to Schedule Com-
munication in Multi-agent Reinforcement Learning”.
In: Proceedings of the International Conference on
Learning Representations (ICLR) . 2019.
[19] Woojun Kim, Myungsik Cho, and Youngchul Sung.
“Message-Dropout: An Efﬁcient Training Method for
Multi-Agent Deep Reinforcement Learning”. In: Pro-
ceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelli-
gence (AAAI). 2019.
[20] Andreas Krause and Carlos Guestrin. “Near-optimal
observation selection using submodular functions”. In:
AAAI. V ol. 7. 2007, pp. 1650–1654.
[21] James F Kurose. Computer networking: A top-down
approach featuring the internet, 3/E . Pearson Educa-
tion India, 2005.
[22] Michael L Littman. “Markov games as a framework
for multi-agent reinforcement learning”. In: Machine
learning proceedings 1994 . Elsevier, 1994, pp. 157–
163.
[23] Jonathan Long, Evan Shelhamer, and Trevor Darrell.
“Fully convolutional networks for semantic segmen-
tation”. In: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) .
2015, pp. 3431–3440.
[24] Ryan Lowe et al. “Multi-agent actor-critic for mixed
cooperative-competitive environments”. In: Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS) .
2017.
[25] Minh-Thang Luong, Hieu Pham, and Christopher D
Manning. “Effective approaches to attention-based
neural machine translation”. In: Conference on Em-
pirical Methods in Natural Language Processing
(EMNLP). 2015.
[26] Andre Martins and Ramon Astudillo. “From softmax
to sparsemax: A sparse model of attention and multi-
label classiﬁcation”. In: Proceedings of the Inter-
national Conference on Machine Learning (ICML) .
2016, pp. 1614–1623.
[27] Francisco S Melo, Matthijs TJ Spaan, and Stefan J
Witwicki. “QueryPOMDP: POMDP-based communi-
cation in multiagent systems”. In: Proceedings of
the 9th European conference on Multi-Agent Systems .
2011.
[28] Liviu Panait and Sean Luke. “Cooperative multi-agent
learning: The state of the art”. In: Autonomous agents
and multi-agent systems (2005).
[29] Peng Peng et al. “Multiagent bidirectionally-
coordinated nets: Emergence of human-level
coordination in learning to play starcraft combat
games”. In: arXiv preprint arXiv:1703.10069 (2017).
[30] Emanuele Pesce and Giovanni Montana. “Improv-
ing Coordination in Multi-Agent Deep Reinforcement
Learning through Memory-driven Communication”.
In: Neural Information Processing Systems Work-
shops. 2019.
[31] Olaf Ronneberger, Philipp Fischer, and Thomas Brox.
“U-net: Convolutional networks for biomedical image
segmentation”. In: International Conference on Medi-
cal image computing and computer-assisted interven-
tion. Springer. 2015, pp. 234–241.
[32] Sajad Saeedi et al. “Multiple-robot simultaneous local-
ization and mapping: A review”. In: Journal of Field
Robotics 33.1 (2016), pp. 3–46.
[33] Jurgen Schmidhuber. “A general method for multi-
agent reinforcement learning in unrestricted environ-
ments”. In: Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on
Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AAAI) . 1996.
[34] Shital Shah et al. “AirSim: High-Fidelity Visual and
Physical Simulation for Autonomous Vehicles”. In:
Field and Service Robotics . 2017.
[35] Amanpreet Singh, Tushar Jain, and Sainbayar
Sukhbaatar. “Learning when to Communicate at Scale
in Multiagent Cooperative and Competitive Tasks”. In:
arXiv preprint arXiv:1812.09755 (2018).
[36] Sainbayar Sukhbaatar, Rob Fergus, et al. “Learning
multiagent communication with backpropagation”. In:
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems
(NIPS). 2016.
[37] Ming Tan. “Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning: In-
dependent vs. Cooperative Agents”. In: Proceedings
of the International Conference on Machine Learning
(ICML). 1993.
[38] Ashish Vaswani et al. “Attention is all you need”. In:
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems
(NIPS). 2017.
[39] Chongjie Zhang and Victor Lesser. “Coordinating
multi-agent reinforcement learning with limited com-
munication”. In: Proceedings of International Confer-
ence on Autonomous agents and Multi-agent Systems
(AAMAS). 2013.
[40] Hengshuang Zhao et al. “Pyramid Scene Parsing Net-
work”. In: The IEEE Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) . July 2017.